Your sensor is now fine tuned and almost fully operational. The final stage is to create a baseline of alerts so that Microsoft Defender for IoT understands the normal type of traffic flow through your system. Then, Defender for IoT is able to identify which traffic is most dangerous or suspicious and produces accurate alerts. Creating the baseline is called the learning stage, as based on your triaging of the alerts, Defender for IoT learns which alerts are regular, safe network traffic. This learning stage can take a week or two, depending on the size of your system, as you define which alerts Defender for IoT should flag.

## Operational Technology (OT) sensor deployment path

The following diagram shows the complete OT deployment path, with the team responsible for each phase:
<!-- change the image, remove ends-->
:::image type="content" source="../media/5-ot-deploy.png" alt-text="Diagram of the complete OT deployment process" border="false":::
This learn module is divided into two sections.

Section 1 describes the fifth phase in the deployment, *Calibrate and fine-tune*, and deals with calibrating and fine-tuning your sensor. It includes these units:

- Unit 2 describes the general overview of the calibration and fine tuning phase of the sensor deployment.
- Unit 3 describes the information and preparations you need to complete the exercise unit.
- Unit 4 is the exercise unit to practice the calibration and fine tuning activities.

Section 2 describes the sixth phase in the deployment, *Baseline learning*, and deals with triaging the alerts. It includes these units:<!-- I think it is better to only have section 2 written about here?? What do you think? LW -->

- Unit 5 describes the general overview of the baseline learning phase of the sensor deployment.
- Unit 6 describes the information and preparations you need to complete the exercise unit.
- Unit 7 is the exercise unit to practice the alert triaging activities to create the baseline.

## Learning mode

When the sensor first connects to Defender for IoT it enters the learning phase where the sensor <!-- identifies/-->learns to identify the difference between suspicious, harmful network traffic and safe traffic, including regular file transfers or data flows between devices. So that when this suspicious network traffic is identified in the future, alerts are sent to Defender for IoT, and you're able to protect your devices.

In a real life scenario, the learning phase can continue for up to two weeks, and requires regularly, daily triage of the alerts.

## In this phase

As the sensor monitors your network, it identifies traffic or file transfers that it knows could signal harmful activity. Alerts are based on categories of activity, and are also given a severity rating based on the possible threat it could lead to. You need to check these alerts and confirm if they're correct or not, this is called the triage process.  

### Triage alerts

Check each of the details of the new alerts listed in Defender for IoT. When you find an alert that is incorrect select the learn setting so that the sensor understands that this type of network traffic is safe. This specific alert configuration will be added to the baseline of normal network traffic and won't produce an alert in the future.

The alert details pane has an actions taken tab where the learn setting button. It also lists other options and solutions for dealing with the alert, especially in a situation where harmful traffic generates the alert.

You might also want to assign a supression alert to exclude minor level alerts so that only important and severe level alerts appear on the **Alerts** page.

## Outcome

When you complete the triage process, the **Alerts** page shows the updated status of the alerts. The sensor now has a verified baseline of alerts that are considered safe and secure and won't trigger them. This process is repeated until you see that most of the alerts are important ones, and not generated by normal system traffic.
