Your car manufacturing organization has offices and production sites across the globe, with a network linking them together. A sensor at one site is connected and sending data to Microsoft Defender for IoT. The deployment team has already fine-tuned the sensor settings ensuring that all the devices are correctly identified. Now your task is to set up the alert baseline to ensure that normal traffic doesn't trigger alerts within the system and instead only reports suspicious activity. Checking and updating the alerts is called the triage process.

Defender for IoT is automatically set to the *Learning* mode as soon as it starts to receive data from the sensor. In this mode, Defender for IoT starts building a baseline of alerts to help identify suspicious network traffic that might affect the security of your devices. When suspicious traffic is identified Defender for IoT creates an alert. During the *learning* mode, you need to check all of the alerts and confirm if the traffic is dangerous. If the traffic is normal network traffic assign the *learn* status and the sensor will learn not to flag this type of traffic in the future. At the end of the learning period, Defender for IoT enters the regular *operational* mode.

## Creating the alerts baseline

To create the alert baseline, follow the triage process:

1. Filter the alerts - by time, severity, or another parameter.
1. Choose an alert, open the alert details pane, and analyze the alert information.
1. Follow the **Remediation steps** to triage and fix according to type of alert.
1. For less important alerts you might want to create a suppression rule.
1. Apply your changes.

## Triage your alerts
<!-- How do we triage the alerts, just describe doing this with an example we have in screenshots, and tell them to look for their own and ones on their system - LW - decide the skill and then show the alert - Amit-->
In the **Alert details** page, a set of remediation steps are listed in order to triage the alert. When the alert is correct and requires a security response the remediation steps set out the best options available. If this isn't a real problem, select the Learn button, and the sensor learns that this network traffic shouldn't trigger an alert again. Making these changes is called the triage process.

### Filter and group alerts

In Defender for IoT, select the **Alerts** page that lists all of the alerts generated by your sensor.
<!-- should this be left as is or use numbering? as this is a walk through unit, not the actual exercise i thought the numbers might not be best - LW-->
Filter the list of alerts by a parameter or mix of parameters, such as a time period, the site or zone, or alert severity. You can also sort the list using the **Group by** feature.

:::image type="content" source="../media/alerts-main-group-by.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the alerts screen filtering with group by setting" lightbox="../media/alerts-main-group-by.png":::
OR
:::image type="content" source="../media/6-alerts-main-group-by.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the alerts screen filtering with group by setting with box" lightbox="../media/6-alerts-main-group-by.png":::

Select an alert and the details appear in the alert pane, including the alert description, traffic source, traffic destination and more. To analyze the alert in greater detail, select **View full details**. Choosing multiple alerts allows you to make bulk changes to the status, severity, or learn levels using the alerts menu bar.<!-- does this have another name? LW--> <!-- Should bulk changes be placed lower down the article, because it is about making changes, we havent spoken about that yet!! but it is also here with choosing the number of alerts!!! - LW-->

:::image type="content" source="../media/alerts-main-bulk-status.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the alerts screen making a bulk status change" lightbox="../media/alerts-main-bulk-status.png":::
OR
:::image type="content" source="../media/6-alerts-main-bulk-status.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the alerts screen making a bulk status change with box" lightbox="../media/6-alerts-main-bulk-status.png":::

### Analyze an alert

Alerts have different **Names** that describe the type of security problem identified. Each Name has its own list of **Remediation steps** to be taken. Some of these steps can be done immediately and directly in Defender for IoT. While others need you to check aspects of your system, and then update the alert another time.

Analyze the alert in greater depth in the **Alerts** page, which has two tabs, the **Alerts details** and the **Take action** tab where the **Remediation steps** are found.

You can also download the PCAP files of the raw traffic data and analyze them using a PCAP file reader, which might also give you more information about the alert.

### Update alerts

In the **Take action** tab, follow the **Remediation steps**. Sometimes a list of multiple actions are listed, sometimes a choice of options are listed. If available you might be asked to *Select Learn*.

**Learn** an alert when you want to close it, and add it as allowed traffic so that you aren't alerted the next time the same traffic is detected. For example, when the sensor detects firmware version changes following standard maintenance procedures, or when a new, expected device is added to the network. Learning an alert closes the alert and adds an item to the sensor event timeline. Learning alerts is available for selected alerts only, mostly alerts triggered by *Policy* and *Anomaly* engine alerts.

Then update the **severity** or **status** levels, which are automatically set when the alert is created and might now need changing.

In Defender for IoT, the sensor assigns three **Severity** levels, they are: *High*, *Medium* and *Low*. The sensor also assigns three **Status** levels, they're *New*, *Active* and *Closed*. We recommend that you start triaging the critical level alerts first.

:::image type="content" source="../media/alerts-main-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the alerts screen" lightbox="../media/alerts-main-1.png":::

Update the status level using the table:

|Status / triage action | Description  |
|---------|---------|
|**New**     |     *New* alerts are alerts that the team needs to triage or investigate. |
|**Active**     |     Set an alert to *Active* to indicate that an investigation is underway, but that the alert can't yet be closed or otherwise triaged. |
|**Closed**     | Set and alert to *Close* to indicate that the investigation is complete, and to alert you again the next time the same traffic is detected. |

Update the severity level using the table:

| Defender for IoT  |  Description  |
|---------|---------|
| **High**    |  Indicates a malicious attack that should be handled immediately.        |
| **Medium**  |  Indicates a security threat that's important to address.        |
| **Low**     |  Indicates some deviation from the baseline behavior that might contain a security threat, or contains no security threats.        |

**Suppression rules** help you filter out unwanted alerts, either permanantly or for a limited time period, so that they will not appear in the **Alerts** list even if they are triggered. This feature allows you to focus on dealing with more important alerts and not seeing minor ones.

To creat a suppression rule you need to assign a name, a time range for the rule to apply or let it be unending, and choose which sensors the rule applies to. You can also apply a filter based on IP address, MAC id, subnet or host address.

## Save changes

When you make these alert changes the baseline alerts are updated. As the learning process continues, you receive less new alerts as the sensor learns the normal flow of traffic in your system.

<!-- A nice definition. may use it more.
Baseline - creates an environmental baseline for the normal communication behaviour of devices in your network is known. going forward, anything that is unseen traffic will create an alert to be followed up with. -->
<!-- generally I find that links go to various places, all over documentation, and are hard to know where or why you are now in a different section -->
<!-- can use this article for screenshots as well /organizations/how-to-manage-cloud-alerts -->
<!--at num3  https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-iot/organizations/how-to-view-alerts#view-details-and-remediate-a-specific-alert this starts with 1. sign into the OT sensor. I suggest removing this line, we are already there, as mentioned above. Why would we add this here?  -->
<!-- at end! https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-iot/organizations/how-to-view-alerts#manage-alert-status-and-triage-alerts the first sentence is confusing. Does this mean save any changes i have made to the alert? Or something else. If it does then I would put it near the end of the entire section of article. but not at the beginning, or it is it at the beginning that it is clear it relates to actions for when you have finished your work-->