
Visual Studio is a fully integrated development environment that many software developers use around the world. GitHub is a version control platform for hosting development projects. You can use GitHub to back up your code and collaborate with others. Visual Studio provides an integrated GitHub experience, making it easier for you to manage projects from inside your code editor.

Suppose you join a new software development team working in C# and .NET using Visual Studio.  While some team members are comfortable with using git from the command line, others are less confident with working in the command line. They would prefer a more visual, integrated experience.  Your management team asks you to evaluate the available tools to help developers work effectively with Git repositories and execute Git commands. You heard that there’s new tooling from Microsoft that could help developers work worry free and mistake-free right from within Visual Studio. 

In this module, you'll use the GitHub integration inside Visual Studio to sign in to GitHub, create a new repository, and push commits - all without leaving the IDE. You'll complete exercises using the Centralized Git Workflow. A Git workflow is a way to use Git effectively and consistently to accomplish work. There are several publicized workflows that act as guidelines for using Git. In the Centralized Workflow, you'll work on a single default branch and push all commits directly to that branch. This workflow is great for small teams and solo developers. 

By the end of this module, you'll know how to use GitHub and source control features inside Visual Studio. It's also worthwhile to first be familiar with the [GitHub flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/) so you can hit the ground running.