In this unit, you'll use the .NET CLI to build, compile, and run an example web app within the Cloud Shell's command shell to the right. Then the current project will be deployed to a public endpoint on Azure so you can tour through the running example project to understand the UI experience it provides so far.

The .NET CLI is the simplest way to create, build, and run an ASP.NET Core web app. The CLI is pre-installed in the Azure Cloud Shell environment used in this unit.

## Run the Razor Pages project and explore its UI

### Build and run the *:::no-loc text="ContosoPets.Ui":::* project

1. Run the following .NET CLI command in the command shell:

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet run
    ```

    [!INCLUDE[OS-specific keyboard shortcuts](../../../includes/azure-cloudshell-copy-paste-tip.md)]

    The preceding command:

    * Locates the project file at the current directory.
    * Retrieves and installs any required project dependencies for this project.
    * Compiles the project code.
    * Hosts the web app with ASP.NET Core's Kestrel web server.

    The web app is hosted at both `http://localhost:5000` and `https://localhost:5001` by default. This module uses the secure URL beginning with `https`.

    You can't view the *:::no-loc text="ContosoPets.Ui":::* app's pages in a browser, since it isn't yet hosted on a public endpoint. You'll host the the app on a public endpoint in a following step.

    A variation of the following output displays to indicate your app is being hosted:

    ```console
    Hosting environment: Development
    Content root path: [your app directory here]\src\ContosoPets.Ui
    Now listening on: https://localhost:5001
    Now listening on: http://localhost:5000
    ```

    The preceding output indicates the app is running and listening on ports 5000 and 5001.

1. Press <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd> to stop the app.

If you run the app on your own machine, you'd be able to direct a browser to 'https://localhost:5001' to view the resulting page. To view the app, deploy it to a public endpoint hosted on Azure App Service.

### Deploy your *:::no-loc text="ContosoPets.Ui":::* app to a public endpoint hosted on Azure App Service

Run the following command in the command shell:

```azurecli
az webapp up
```

The preceding Azure CLI command provisions a public endpoint for this project. Be patient, as the first deployment of the app will take longer.

A variation of the following output eventually displays to indicate the web UI is being deployed:

```console
Starting zip deployment.  This operation can take a while to complete...
```

Once your project has been successfully hosted, a variation of the following output appears:

```console
You can launch the app at http://webapp<random instance ID number here>.azurewebsites.net
```

Now that your *:::no-loc text="ContosoPets.Ui":::* app is hosted on a public endpoint, let's tour the unfinished app.

## Tour the web pages generated by the running ContosoPets.Ui app

1. Run the following command in the command shell to get the hosted app's URL:

    ```bash
    echo $webAppUrl
    ```

1. Select the resulting URL in the command shell to view the running web app in your local default browser.

1. Select the **:::no-loc text="Products Admin":::** link near the top.

The following page appears:

:::image type="content" source="../media/4-run-razor-pages-project/products-admin.png" alt-text="The ContosoPets.Ui products administration page." border="true" lightbox="../media/4-run-razor-pages-project/products-admin.png":::

This is the rendered *:::no-loc text="Index.cshtml":::* Razor Page located in the *:::no-loc text="Pages/Product":::* directory of your *:::no-loc text="ContosoPets.Ui":::* project. The URL ends with *:::no-loc text="Product":::*. Razor Pages is using the directory structure within the *:::no-loc text="Pages":::* directory as the convention for routing requests by default.

This Razor Page has requested a list of available products from the web API. Currently, you can only choose to read the current list of products and edit or delete an existing product.

Now that you have verified you can successfully build, run, and deploy the existing project, let's modify it so the user can create new product entries that are validated and sent to the web API.
