Now that you have added a *:::no-loc text="Create":::* Razor Page form and its *:::no-loc text="PageModel":::* class file that handles `POST` events, it is time to test and run the completed project.

## Build, deploy, and test the updated *:::no-loc text="ContosoPets.UI":::* web application

### Build your *:::no-loc text="ContosoPets.UI":::* application

1. Run the following command in the command shell to return to the project directory:

    ```bash
    popd
    ```

    The current directory should now be the *:::no-loc text="ContosoPets.UI":::* directory.

1. Run the following command:

    ```bash
    dotnet build
    ```

    The preceding command rebuilds your *:::no-loc text="ContosoPets.UI":::* application with your latest saved changes.

### Deploy your *:::no-loc text="ContosoPets.UI":::* application to a public endpoint hosted on Azure App Service

Run the following command in the command shell:

```bash
az webapp up
```

The preceding command runs a script to provision a public endpoint for this project. Be patient, as it may take several minutes.

Something like the following text should eventually display to indicate the web API is being deployed.

```console
Starting zip deployment. This operation can take a while to complete...
```

Once your project has been successfully hosted. You should see something like the following text:

```console
You can launch the app at http://webapp<random ID number here>.azurewebsites.net
```

Now that your finished *:::no-loc text="ContosoPets.UI":::* application is hosted on a public endpoint, let's test the new *:::no-loc text="Create":::* Razor Page.

## Tour the web pages generated by the running ContosoPets.UI application

1. Run the following command in the command shell to get the hosted application's URL:

   ```bash
   echo $webAppUrl
   ```

1. Click on the resulting URL in the command shell to view the running web application in your local default browser.

1. Click on *:::no-loc text="Products Admin":::* near the top right.

1. Select *:::no-loc text="Add Product":::*.

   Your new Create Razor Page will render.

1. Enter the following invalid *:::no-loc text="Name":::* and *:::no-loc text="Price":::* values to test client-side input validation. Enter no text at all for *:::no-loc text="Name":::*. Enter '0' for *:::no-loc text="Price":::*.

   Validation messages should appear next to the name and price.

1. Enter the following valid *:::no-loc text="Name":::* and *:::no-loc text="Price":::* values to test client-side input validation: Enter any name for *:::no-loc text="Name":::*. Enter '30' for *:::no-loc text="Price":::*.

   If the *:::no-loc text="Name":::* and *:::no-loc text="Price":::* passed input validation, and the web API accepted the new data, you are returned to the products page that should now include your new product entry in the list.

1. When you are finished testing your application, close the browser, and in the command shell press <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd> to stop it.
