Log Analytics is a service in that helps you collect and analyze data generated by resources in your cloud and on-premises environments.

Log queries help you to use the data collected in Azure Monitor Logs. A powerful query language allows you to join data from multiple tables, aggregate large sets of data, and perform complex operations with minimal code. Virtually any question can be answered and analysis performed as long as the supporting data has been collected, and you understand how to construct the right query.

Some features in Azure Monitor such as insights and solutions process log data without exposing you to the underlying queries. To use other features of Azure Monitor, you should understand how queries are constructed and how you can use them to interactively analyze data in Azure Monitor Logs.

:::image type="content" source="../media/log-analytics-38112dc9.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Logs blade in Azure Monitor.":::


## Example 1 - Assessing updates

An important part of the daily routine for any IT administrator is assessing systems update requirements and planning patches. Accurate scheduling is critical, as it directly relates to SLAs to the business and can seriously impact business functions. In the past, you had to schedule an update with only limited knowledge of how long the patching would take. Operations Management Suite collects data from all customers performing patches and uses that data to provide an average patching time for specific missing updates. This use of “crowd-sourced” data is unique to cloud systems, and is a great example of how Log Analytics can help meet strict SLAs.

## Example 2 - Change tracking

Troubleshooting an operational incident is a complex process, requiring access to multiple data streams. With Operations Management Suite, you can easily perform analysis from multiple angles, using data from a wide variety of sources through a single interface for correlation of information. By tracking changes throughout the environment, Log Analytics helps to easily identify things like abnormal behavior from a specific account, users installing unapproved software, unexpected system reboots or shutdowns, evidence of security breaches, or specific problems in loosely coupled applications.
