The Azure Developer CLI provides value to both individuals and teams in a variety of scenarios. The templated approach of the tool enables repeatable and predictable deployment scenarios that would otherwise require many manual steps. Some of the most common use cases for `azd` are as follows:

* **Streamlined journey to the cloud** - `azd` accelerates the process of moving your app from a local development environment to Azure. By leveraging existing `azd` templates, you can provision your app to a fully configured cloud environment in minutes. Developers who are unfamiliar with Azure provisioning and configuration tasks can rely on templates to complete the majority of the work for them. This use case is especially valuable for environments with many Azure services or complex configuration requirements that are difficult to recreate manually.

* **Reusable and repeatable app infrastructure** - `azd` templates makes it easy to share and redistribute both the source code and infrastructure scaffolding of your apps. They are a great fit for scenarios where you would like to apply infrastructure-as-code (IaC) principles to your app. The templates includes all of the necessary provisioning and deployment templates, so even developers who are unfamiliar with Azure can quickly get started. For example, if you are working on an open source project or collaborating with other developers, `azd` provides an easy way to package up the entirety of your app and cloud infrastructure for others to easily use.

* **CI/CD for infrastructure and deployment** - You can also use `azd` when you want to provision and deploy your infrastructure using CI/CD through platforms such as GitHub Actions or Azure Pipelines. Most `azd` templates include support for these workflows. As you make changes to your code or infrastructure templates, you can run commands such as `azd deploy` and `azd provision` to push those changes to Azure with a repeatable, reliable process.

Consider these scenarios when evaluating whether `azd` is a good fit for your team and project. Other developers will be able to quickly provision and deploy the app to Azure if you convert your project to an `azd` template.
