Artificial Intelligence, also known as AI, is a fairly new and prominent topic in Computer Science and more specifically data science. The basis of AI is teaching a computer how to have intelligence and make basic decisions.

While you may think that teaching computers how to "think" on their own would lead to extinction of the human race, computers need us to program them. This means there is no threat of computers taking over the world, but there are many benefits of programming computers to make decisions. There are applications of Artificial Intelligence in Netflix to recommend what to watch next, Siri to better detect our phone use habits, Tesla to have their cars auto-drive and many more.

Artificial Intelligence works by giving many different pieces of data to a computer and telling it what that data represents. In our example, we will be giving the computer different images of space rocks and telling that computer what type of rock each of them are. In other words, we will give our computer a picture of a Basalt rock and tell it that this is a Basalt. This is the process of building an artificial intelligence "model". A model is what you can use to make predictions from. Therefore, after we have shown the computer a large amount of images and created a model, we can give it a new picture that doesn't have a label and the computer should be able to tell us what type of rock it is.

Finally, you may see machine learning and artificial intelligence used almost interchangeably. The main difference between the two is that machine learning is a type of artificial intelligence. They are very similar, however in this module, we will be focusing on artificial intelligence.
