learn-pr/azure/autoscale-java-azure/includes/3-exercise-setup.md, before:

In this unit, we'll configure a sample Microservice architecture to be ready for autoscaling.

## Set up the sample microservice application

In a web browser, open https://shell.azure.com in a new browser window.
Select "Bash" mode in the top right-hand side.
Next, in the bash window, run the following commands to clone the sample repository and open the built-in Azure editor:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-autoscale-java
   cd mslearn-autoscale-java
   code deployPetClinicApp.sh
   ```

## Set up and run the setup script

When you run the above command, a window will pop up with the file `deployPetClinicApp.sh` ready to be edited in the built-in Azure editor.

1. At the top of the `deployPetClinicApp.sh` file, edit the following variables to customize the scripts parameters for your environment. For all resource names, use lowercase letters - you may use hyphens and numbers also:

   | Variable | Description |
   |-|-|
   | resource_group | Provide a new or existing resource group name |
   | region | The Azure region you'll use. You can use `westeurope` or `centralus`, but we recommend that you use a region close to where you live and that also support Azure Spring Apps. To see the full list of available regions, visit the **Azure Spring Apps Availability by Region** in the Summary unit at the end of this module |
   | spring_apps_service | Name of your Azure Spring Apps instance |
   | mysql_server_name | The name of your MySQL server. It should be unique across Azure |
   | mysql_server_admin_name | Username for the MySQL Administrator. The admin name can't be "azure-superuser", "admin", "administrator", "root", "guest, or "public" |
   | mysql_server_admin_password | A new password for the server admin user. The password must be 8 to 128 characters long and contain a combination of uppercase or lowercase letters, numbers, and non-alphanumeric characters (!, $, #, %, and so on).|
   | log_analytics | Name of your Azure Log Analytics workspace |

2. Save the file by selecting the ... action panel in the top right of the editor and select "Save".

3. Close the editor - open the ... action panel in the top right of the editor and select "Close Editor".

4. Don't close the Azure Cloud Shell, as next, we'll run the setup script.

## Run the setup script

The script takes 30-45 minutes to run and includes the creation of an Azure spring Apps and a MySQL instance. This sample script also sets-up autoscale configuration for your microservices.

In the already open Azure Cloud Shell, run the below shell script. Leave the browser window and Azure Cloud Shell open while running. Store the URL when the script completes:

```bash
bash deployPetClinicApp.sh
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you run into errors with the setup script, the script will attempt to delete any resources it creates.
> You can then try again once the resource group is fully deleted.
> The Summary unit has instructions on how do also delete your resources manually.

## Test the application

Next, we'll verify your environment via the Azure portal.

1. Open the Azure portal

2. Select "Azure Spring Apps" from the list of Azure services
3. Select your Azure Spring Apps instance

4. On the right-hand side, select "Apps" under settings

5. Verify all the applications are running and registered

   :::image type="content" source="../media/3-app-selection.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot showing applications under your spring apps." lightbox="../media/3-app-selection.jpg":::

6. On the left-hand side, select the "api-gateway" application

7. The URL for your application is listed on the left-hand side properties as "URL"

   :::image type="content" source="../media/3-gateway-url.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Spring Apps gateway url." lightbox="../media/3-gateway-url.jpg":::

In a web browser, navigate to the URL of your api-gateway to open the Pet Clinic microservice application.

:::image type="content" source="../media/4-petclinic.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot of your Spring Apps application." lightbox="../media/4-petclinic.jpg":::

Next, navigate to the "Owners" tab and select "Find all owners".
Confirm your sample application is up and running, populated with data and now ready for you to explore.

:::image type="content" source="../media/petclinic.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the owners tab." lightbox="../media/petclinic.png":::

Commit message:

AB#594362 - Edits and updates from module review

learn-pr/azure/autoscale-java-azure/includes/3-exercise-setup.md, after:

In this unit, we'll configure a sample Microservice architecture to be ready for autoscaling.

> [!NOTE]
> You need access to an Azure subscription where you can create resources for this module. When you've finished the module, be sure to delete any resources you created to avoid charges to your subscription.

## Set up the sample microservice application

1. In a web browser, open https://shell.azure.com in a new browser window.
1. Select **Bash** mode in the top right-hand side.
1. Next, in the bash window, run the following commands to clone the sample repository and open the built-in Azure editor:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-autoscale-java
   cd mslearn-autoscale-java
   code deployPetClinicApp.sh
   ```

## Set up and run the setup script

When you run the above command, a window will pop up with the file `deployPetClinicApp.sh` ready to be edited in the built-in Azure editor.

1. At the top of the `deployPetClinicApp.sh` file, edit the following variables to customize the scripts parameters for your environment. For all resource names, use lowercase letters - you may use hyphens and numbers also:

   | Variable | Description |
   |-|-|
   | resource_group | Provide a new or existing resource group name |
   | region | The Azure region you'll use. You can use `westeurope` or `centralus`, but we recommend that you use a region close to where you live and that also support Azure Spring Apps. To see the full list of available regions, visit the **Azure Spring Apps Availability by Region** in the Summary unit at the end of this module |
   | spring_apps_service | Name of your Azure Spring Apps instance |
   | mysql_server_name | The name of your MySQL server. It should be unique across Azure |
   | mysql_server_admin_name | Username for the MySQL Administrator. The admin name can't be "azure-superuser", "admin", "administrator", "root", "guest, or "public" |
   | mysql_server_admin_password | A new password for the server admin user. The password must be 8 to 128 characters long and contain a combination of uppercase or lowercase letters, numbers, and non-alphanumeric characters (!, $, #, %, and so on).|
   | log_analytics | Name of your Azure Log Analytics workspace |

2. Save the file by selecting the **...** action panel in the top right of the editor and selecting **Save**. You can also use the <kbd>Ctrl + S</kbd> keys on Windows or <kbd>Command + S</kbd> on Mac.

3. Close the editor. Select the ***...*** action panel in the top right of the editor and select **Close Editor**. You can also use the <kbd>Ctrl + Q</kbd> keys on Windows or <kbd>Command + Q</kbd> on Mac.

4. Don't close the Azure Cloud Shell, because we'll run the setup script next.

## Run the setup script

The script takes 30-45 minutes to run and includes the creation of an Azure spring Apps and a MySQL instance. This sample script also sets up autoscale configuration for your microservices.

In the already open Azure Cloud Shell, run the following shell script. Leave the browser window and Azure Cloud Shell open while running. Store the URL when the script completes:

```bash
bash deployPetClinicApp.sh
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you run into errors with the setup script, the script will attempt to delete any resources it creates.
> You can then try again once the resource group is fully deleted.
> The Summary unit has instructions on how do also delete your resources manually.

## Test the application

Next, we'll verify your environment via the Azure portal.

1. Open the Azure portal.

1. Select **Azure Spring Apps** from the list of Azure services.
1. Select your Azure Spring Apps instance.

1. On the right-hand side, select **Apps** under **Settings**.

1. Verify all the applications are running and registered

   :::image type="content" source="../media/3-app-selection.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot showing applications under your spring apps." lightbox="../media/3-app-selection.jpg":::

1. On the left-hand side, select the **api-gateway** application.

1. The URL for your application is listed on the left-hand side properties as **URL**.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/3-gateway-url.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Spring Apps gateway URL." lightbox="../media/3-gateway-url.jpg":::

1. In a web browser, navigate to the URL of your api-gateway to open the Pet Clinic microservice application.

:::image type="content" source="../media/4-petclinic.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot of your Spring Apps application." lightbox="../media/4-petclinic.jpg":::

1. Next, navigate to the **Owners** tab and select **Find all owners**.

1. Confirm your sample application is up and running, populated with data, and ready for you to explore.

:::image type="content" source="../media/petclinic.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the owners tab." lightbox="../media/petclinic.png":::
