The pricing tier of an App Service plan determines what App Service features you get and how much you pay for the plan. There are a few categories of pricing tiers.

|   **Selected Feature**   | **Free** | **Shared** |     **Basic**      |     **Standard**     |          **Premium**           |               **Isolated**                |
|:------------------------:|:--------:|:----------:|:------------------:|:--------------------:|:------------------------------:|:-----------------------------------------:|
|          Usage           | dev/test |  dev/test  | dedicated dev/test | production workloads | enhanced scale and performance | high performance, security, and isolation |
| Web, mobile, or API apps |    10    |    100     |     Unlimited      |      Unlimited       |           Unlimited            |                 Unlimited                 |
|        Disk space        |   1 GB   |    1 GB    |       10 GB        |        50 GB         |             250 GB             |                   1 TB                    |
|        Auto scale        |    -     |     -      |         -          |      Supported       |           Supported            |                 Supported                 |
|     Deployment slots     |    -     |     -      |         -          |          5           |               20               |                    20                     |
|      Max instances       |    -     |     -      |      Up to 3       |       Up to 10       |            Up to 30            |                 Up to 100                 |

 -  **Free and Shared**. The Free and Shared service plans are base tiers that run on the same Azure VMs as other apps. Some apps may belong to other customers. These tiers are intended to be used only for development and testing purposes. There is no SLA provided for Free and Shared service plans. Free and Shared plans are metered on a per App basis.
 -  **Basic**. The Basic service plan is designed for apps that have lower traffic requirements, and don't need advanced auto scale and traffic management features. Pricing is based on the size and number of instances you run. Built-in network load-balancing support automatically distributes traffic across instances. The Basic service plan with Linux runtime environments supports Web App for Containers.
 -  **Standard**. The Standard service plan is designed for running production workloads. Pricing is based on the size and number of instances you run. Built-in network load-balancing support automatically distributes traffic across instances. The Standard plan includes auto scale that can automatically adjust the number of virtual machine instances running to match your traffic needs. The Standard service plan with Linux runtime environments supports Web App for Containers.
 -  **Premium**. The Premium service plan is designed to provide enhanced performance for production apps. The upgraded Premium plan, Premium v2, features Dv2-series VMs with faster processors, SSD storage, and double memory-to-core ratio compared to Standard. The new Premium plan also supports higher scale via increased instance count while still providing all the advanced capabilities found in the Standard plan. The first generation of Premium plan is still available for existing customers’ scaling needs.
 -  **Isolated**. The Isolated service plan is designed to run mission critical workloads, that are required to run in a virtual network. The Isolated plan allows customers to run their apps in a private, dedicated environment in an Azure datacenter using Dv2-series VMs with faster processors, SSD storage, and double the memory-to-core ratio compared to Standard. The private environment used with an Isolated plan is called the App Service Environment. The plan can scale to 100 instances with more available upon request.
