To understand how to comply with regulations such as GDPR and CCPA, you need to understand key concepts and key components of data processing. 

The European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) gives rights to people (known in the regulation as *data subjects*) to manage the personal data that has been collected by an employer or other type of agency or organization (known as the *data controller* or just *controller*). Personal data is defined very broadly under the GDPR as any data that relates to an identified or identifiable natural person. The GDPR gives data subjects specific rights to their personal data; these rights include obtaining copies of personal data, requesting corrections to it, restricting the processing of it, deleting it, or receiving it in an electronic format so it can be moved to another controller. A formal request by a data subject to a controller to take an action on their personal data is called a *Data Subject Request* or DSR. 

Similarly, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), provides privacy rights and obligations to California consumers, including rights similar to GDPR's Data Subject Rights, such as the right to delete, access, and receive (portability) their personal information. The CCPA also provides for certain disclosures, protections against discrimination when electing exercise rights, and "opt-out/ opt-in" requirements for certain data transfers classified as "sales". 

The following provides definitions of terms that are relevant to data processing:

- **Controller**: The natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data; where the purposes and means of such processing are determined by Union or Member State law, the controller, or the specific criteria for its nomination may be provided for by Union or Member State law.
- **Personal data and data subject**: Any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person ('data subject'); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural, or social identity of that natural person.
- **Processor**: A natural or legal person, public authority, agency, or other body, which processes personal data on behalf of the controller.
- **Customer Data**: All data, including all text, sound, video, or image files, and software, that are provided by, or on behalf of, a customer through use of the enterprise service. Customer Data includes both identifiable information of end users (for example, user names and contact information in Azure Active Directory) and Customer Content that a customer uploads into or creates in specific services (for example, customer content in an Azure Storage account, customer content of an Azure SQL Database, or a customer's virtual machine image in Azure Virtual Machines).
- **System-Generated Logs**: Logs and related data generated by Microsoft or other vendor that help provide enterprise services to users. System-generated logs contain primarily pseudonymized data, such as unique identifiers — typically a number generated by the system that cannot on its own identify an individual person but is used to deliver the enterprise services to users. System-generated logs may also contain identifiable information about end users, such as a user name.

### Data subject requests processes

A controller is obligated to promptly consider each DSR and provide a substantive response either by taking the requested action or by providing an explanation for why the DSR cannot be accommodated by the controller. A controller should consult with its own legal or compliance advisers regarding the proper disposition of any given DSR.

Several processes may be involved completing a DSR, subject to your organization's GDPR-compliance rules.

- **Discover**: Use search and discovery tools to more easily find customer data that may be the subject of a DSR. Once potentially responsive documents are collected, you can perform one or more of the DSR actions described in the following steps to respond to the request. Alternatively, you may determine that the request doesn't meet your organization's guidelines for responding to DSRs.
- **Access**: Retrieve personal data that resides in the Microsoft cloud and, if requested, make a copy of it that can be available to the data subject.
- **Rectify**: Make changes or implement other requested actions on the personal data, where applicable.
- **Restrict**: Restrict the processing of personal data, either by removing licenses for various Azure services or turning off the desired services where possible. You can also remove data from the Microsoft cloud and retain it on-premises or at another location.
- **Delete**: Permanently remove personal data that resided in the Microsoft cloud.
- **Export/Receive (Portability)**: Provide an electronic copy (in a machine-readable format) of personal data or personal information to the data subject. Personal information under the CCPA is any information relating to an identified or identifiable person. There is no distinction between a person's private, public, or work roles. The defined term "personal information" roughly lines up with "personal data" under GDPR. However, the CCPA also includes family and household data.

