The Advanced eDiscovery solution in Microsoft 365 builds on the existing core eDiscovery. This new solution, provides an end-to-end workflow to preserve, collect, review, analyze, and export content that's relevant to your organization's internal and external investigations. It also lets legal teams manage the entire legal hold notification workflow to communicate with custodians involved in a case.

The built-in workflow of Advanced eDiscovery described below aligns with the Electronic Discovery Reference Model (EDRM) which is a framework that outlines standards for recovery and discovery of digital data.  

:::image type="content" source="../media/5-advanced-ediscovery-workflow-inline.png" lightbox="../media/5-advanced-ediscovery-workflow-expanded.png" alt-text="The Advanced eDiscovery workflow.":::

1. **Add custodians to a case**. This is the first step after creating a case. Custodians are people who have administrative control of a document or electronic file that could be relevant to the case.
1. **Search custodial data sources for data relevant to the case**. Once custodians have been added to a case, you can use the built-in search tool to find the custodian locations for data that might be relevant to the case. You do this by using keywords, properties, and conditions to build your search queries, which will return search results that contain data that is likely relevant to the case. You can preview search results to quickly verify whether the data is relevant and revise your queries and rerun searches to improve results.
1. **Add data to a review set**. After configuring and verifying that a search result has provided you with the right data, you’ll need to prepare your results for review and analysis. You can do this by adding the search results to a review set. Doing this means that items are copied from their location of origin to a secure location in Azure Storage, and the data is also reindexed to optimize it for review and analysis.  You can also add data to conversation review sets, which are a special type of review set that will provide you with the capabilities to reconstruct conversations, that enable you to review and export conversations like those in Microsoft Teams.
1. **Review and analyze data in a review set**. Once your data is in a review set, you’re ready to view and analyze the case data through a wide variety of capabilities and tools such as filters, queries, and tags. The goal of review and analysis is to reduce the data set to what is the most relevant to the case that is being investigated.
1. **Export and download case data**.  Finally, you can export the data out of Advanced eDiscovery for external review. For example, for an external team of investigators. You export the data out of the review set, and then copy it to a different Azure Storage location. You can then use Azure Storage Explorer to download that data as an export package, to a local device. This export package will contain other components like a summary report, and an error report.

Use Advanced eDiscovery in Microsoft 365 to take advantage to preserve, collect, review, analyze, and export data that's relevant to your organization's internal and external investigations.
