Throughout the “Build Mixed Reality Digital Twins with Azure Digital Twin and Unity” learning path, you will work with modified assets and simulated operational data based on a real wind farm, the Lac-Alfred Wind Project in Quebec, Canada.  The wind farm is owned and operated by Enbridge, a Canadian energy company committed to expanding its low-carbon energy production and using technology to optimize its operations.  The telemetry data, although realistic, is not real and is not representative of actual wind farm performance – it was simulated for educational purposes.  Your HoloLens 2 application will be focused on operating a low-carbon energy production wind farm in Canada, using Microsoft and Unity technologies to create a functioning Digital Twin.    

:::image type="content" source="../media/enbridge-turbine.jpg" alt-text="Image of a real-world turbine in a field of flowers.":::

In this learning path, you will create an application for the HoloLens 2 to receive data from an Azure Digital Twin (ADT) instance of a wind turbine, complete with operational sensor data.  You will illustrate the value of connecting sensor data to your wind turbine Digital Twin in an immersive, data-rich experience.  The HoloLens 2 experience will enable you to visualize, monitor, and act on operation conditions on a wind power generating facility.  Specifically, you will leverage Azure services to monitor the operational state of a set of wind turbines, observing power, ambient temperature, and simulated events.  