## Service-Level-Agreement (SLA)
Since SaaS is not only software, but primarily a service, one of the differences of SaaS compared to traditional software products is Service-Level-Agreements (SLAs).

SLAs describe software provider's commitments for uptime and connectivity. If software provider doesn't achieve and maintain the Service Levels for each Service as described in this SLA, then customers are eligible for compensation.

An SLA penalty towards software provider depends on industry and type of business. The two most common scenarios are Financial Penalty and Service Credits. In case of Service Credits customers may be eligible for a credit towards a portion of customers’ monthly service fees. 
Here you can find the inspiration on how Microsoft defined SLA for one of our products -Microsoft Entra ID: [SLA for Microsoft Entra ID | Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/sla/active-directory/v1_1/)

Since SLA is an agreement between you as SaaS provider and a client, you can define 100%  uptime for your service. However, it's hard to achieve 100% availability for complex systems, so many software companies tie their SLA to availability they can provide. If SLA states 100% uptime, it only means that if there were outages, customers will get compensation according to agreement, but it doesn't guarantee 100% availability.

**It is purely engineering task to build highly available systems which provide 100% uptime, while SLA is a way to legally protect your company for the outages.** 




## Service-Level-Objectives (SLO)
Service level objectives (SLOs) are measurable goals set on a few of key customer-centric service level indicators (SLIs). They measure your customer's experience of a business or infrastructure workload.

SLOs determine whether you, as the businesses service provider, are meeting the promises made to them in a formally negotiated service level agreement (SLA). SLO/SLIs should be defined early in the design of any cloud business or infrastructure workload. 

In Azure, service level management is more lightweight, as the interfaces and functionality are predefined, and metrics are predefined by Microsoft. Consumers need to manage their service delivery expectations when utilizing cloud workloads.

#### Example

For example, here's a simplified example of an SLO for an internal time tracking web-based application:

*Requests in the last 5 minutes are served in under 1000 milliseconds at the 99th percentile.*

The metrics are aggregations of time series data, called Service Level Indicators (SLIs). Where the SLIs are gathered matters a lot. In the above example, if the customer interacts with the service using an API, then measuring system latency and time to process requests are accurate SLIs. However, if the customer interacts with the service using a web portal, then the total time to service the request should also include the JavaScript performance of the web page.

The focus for service owners is to determine:
* Which scenarios are critical indicators of service health from the perspective of the customer
*	Where to gather the SLIs so that they are as close to the customer experience as possible, and
*	What the SLOs should be for these SLIs.


If you look across the industry, there are two types of SLOs:
*	Service-centric SLOs - These SLOs are tactical goals that teams define to gradually improve the quality of their service over time. They are designed to be pragmatic goals that are achievable in an engineering milestone.
For example, if a service is currently achieving 99.7% availability, the team could set a goal to reach 99.9% availability in the next quarter.
*	Customer-centric SLOs - These SLOs define the ideal future state or goal at which point further investments in quality would be deemed unnecessary, because you are fully meeting the customers' expectations.



## Contoso scenario

A simple SLA agreement which Contoso could create for their users, could be something similar to the example shared above for Microsoft Entra ID. 

First, Contoso would define, what Service Levels are guaranteed, such as:

* Users are able to access and login into the system, generate designs and use other available functionality  within the system

* Contoso provides 99.99% availability for their services and covers the scenarios mentioned above 

  

Also, Contoso will have to define, what is considered Downtime, and what compensation do they offer when customers are facing the downtime. 

For example, Contoso could take inspiration from Microsoft Entra compensation structure (uptime percentage correlated with % of monthly credits received) or create a system of flat compensation for each minute of downtime. 



Regarding the SLOs, Contoso get can start with simple definition of:

* QoS: New design ideas should be generated by AI model within 3 mins after user request

* Availability: 99.99% over a monthly period

* Capacity: % Utilization (CPU, storage, memory, latency, throughput, scaling)

* Product adoption: rate of acceptance of proposed design ideas should be above 20%

  

SLOs serve many important purposes in the development and operations of cloud workloads, and thus serve different purpose compared to SLA. SLO is indicating the state and direction of tech team, while SLA is a contract with customers about terms for provided services and compensation in situations when these terms are not met.as 
