In the previous unit, you learned about typical administration tasks at the Organization, Team, and Enterprise level.  In this unit, you deep dive into one of the most common administrative tasks performed by Organization owners: setting up and controlling users' authentication to GitHub.

## GitHub's authentication options

GitHub provides several popular ways for administrators to configure authentication and membership (authorization).  Administrators can choose from several options and enforce policies that restrict how users can authenticate.  Furthermore, authentication options change depending on the type of access users are trying to perform, whether accessing via a web browser client or a git client.

### Authenticate using username and password

In its most basic form, administrators could allow users to continue using the default method of authentication available to users, namely, username and password authentication, sometimes known as the "basic" HTTP authentication scheme. In recent years, basic authentication has proven to be too risky to trust when dealing with highly sensitive information.  Fortunately,  better alternatives exist.

### Authenticate using multi-factor authentication

Multi-factor authentication (MFA), also known as two-factor authentication (2FA), is an extra layer of security used when logging into websites or apps. With 2FA, you have to log in with your username and password and provide another form of authentication that only you know or have access to.

For GitHub, the second form of authentication is a code that's generated by an application on your mobile device or sent as a text message (SMS). After you enable 2FA, GitHub generates an authentication code anytime someone attempts to sign into your GitHub account. The only way someone can sign into your account is if they know both your password and have access to the authentication code on your phone.

Organization owners can require organization members, outside collaborators, and billing managers to enable two-factor authentication for their personal accounts, making it harder for malicious actors to access an organization's repositories and settings.

Enterprise owners can enforce certain security policies for all organizations owned by an enterprise account.

### Authenticate using single sign-on (SSO)

You can access an organization that uses Security Assertions Markup Language (SAML) single sign-on (SSO) by authenticating through an identity provider (IdP). To authenticate with the API or Git on the command line when an organization enforces SAML SSO, you must authorize your personal access token or SSH key.

SAML single sign-on is available with GitHub Enterprise Cloud. This type of authentication gives organization owners and enterprise owners on GitHub a way to control and secure access to organization resources like repositories, issues, and pull requests. Organization owners can invite GitHub users to join the organization that uses SAML SSO, which allows those users to contribute to the organization and retain their existing identity and contributions on GitHub.

When users access resources within an organization that uses SAML SSO, GitHub will redirect them to the organization's SAML IdP to authenticate. After they successfully authenticate with their account on the IdP, the IdP redirects them back to GitHub, where they can access the organization's resources.

### Authenticate using personal access tokens

Personal Access Tokens (PAT) are an alternative to using passwords for authentication to GitHub Enterprise Server when using the GitHub API or the command line.  You generate a token via GitHub's settings option, and tie permissions specific to a repository or organization to the token.  Then, each time you use the git command-line tool to interact with GitHub, you're asked for your username and password.

### Authenticate using SSH keys 

As an alternative to using Personal Access Tokens, users can connect and authenticate to remote servers and services via SSH with the help of SSH keys. SSH keys eliminate the need for users to supply their username and personal access token with each interaction.

When you set up SSH, you'll generate an SSH key and add it to the ssh-agent and then add the key to your GitHub account. Adding the SSH key to the ssh-agent ensures that your SSH key has an extra layer of security through the use of a passphrase.  You can configure your local copy of git to automatically supply the passphrase, or you can supply it manually each time you use the git command-line tool to interact with GitHub.

SSH Keys can even be used with a repository owned by an organization that uses SAML single sign-on, however, you'll need to authorize it first.  Furthermore, if you're a member of an organization that provides SSH certificates, you can use your certificate to access that organization's repositories without adding the certificate to your GitHub account.

## Controlling membership and authentication as a GitHub administrator

GitHub administrators have options when it comes to setting up and enforcing security.

### Use LDAP for authentication

LDAP lets you authenticate GitHub Enterprise Server against your existing accounts and centrally manage repository access. LDAP is a popular application protocol for accessing and maintaining directory information services, and is one of the most common protocols used to integrate third-party software with large company user directories.

If you want to authenticate users without adding them to your identity provider, you can configure built-in authentication. For more information, see "Allowing built-in authentication for users outside your identity provider."

GitHub Enterprise Server integrates with popular LDAP services like:

- Active Directory
- Oracle Directory Server Enterprise Edition
- OpenLDAP
- Open Directory

... among others.

### Use SAML as an identity provider for authentication

GitHub Enterprise Server can act as a service provider with your internal SAML identity provider.  In other words, GitHub Enterprise Server can act as a service provider (SP) with your internal SAML identity provider (IdP) to control authentication and membership (authorization) in other systems.

SAML is an XML-based standard for authentication and authorization. 

GitHub offers limited support for all identity providers that implement the SAML 2.0 standard with official support for several popular identity providers including:

- Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS)
- Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)
- Okta
- OneLogin
- PingOne

... among others.