Assistive technologies are products or tools commonly used by individuals with disabilities to help perform daily tasks. In the context of gaming, common assistive technologies can include software like screen narration programs, magnification tools, closed captioning, and more. Additionally, players may use hardware-based assistive technologies like adaptive keyboards, mice, controllers, and other specialized input devices.

While accessibility supports should ideally be embedded into the titles, experiences, or hardware you are creating, it is still important to ensure that players can leverage the assistive technologies they already own while gaming. Imagine the following scenario: a player who is blind uses a screen narration software that reads aloud the text and visual elements currently on their PC screen to complete school assignments. They recently heard about a new PC game that can be played through audio cues alone, an incredibly important game feature for players who are blind. They purchase and start up the game, only to find that the screen narration software on their PC is not working with the game. The player knows they launched the game app but does not know what the contents of the initial game launch screen are because these elements are not being narrated aloud. Despite the game itself potentially being accessible for this player because in-game play can be fully navigated via audio cues alone, they are still blocked from this experience because they cannot navigate the main menu to locate the start button without screen narration. Had the platform or title ensured that their products were compatible with third-party screen narration software or provided game title or platform-level screen narration software, this player may have been able to navigate to the in-game play.

In this module, you will be introduced to common hardware and software assistive technologies that players with disabilities may use to improve access to gaming experiences. You will learn about the impact of assistive technologies on player experiences, the importance of supporting assistive technology compatibility within your title, platform, or hardware device.

By the end of this module, you will be able to describe common hardware and software assistive technologies that players with disabilities may use while gaming and apply these learnings within the context of game title, platform, and hardware development to best support individual player needs as they relate to assistive technology access while gaming.
