Now that we have discussed how to provision and manage resources in the cloud, the next step is to address how to manage who has access to those resources. The first requirement is that we must be able to identity each user who accesses an organization's cloud resources. The second requirement is that administrators must have the power to define permissions so the system can decide whether to allow an access to occur. "Access" could mean modifying a VM, deleting a VM, or simply determining whether the VM exists. The goal in securing cloud resources is to enable users to access the resources that they need to access in order to perform the job functions assigned to them and nothing more. A database administrator might require permission to add a table to a database that she owns, but she probably shouldn't be allowed to modify (or delete) the VM that hosts the database or the network that the VM is part of.

The concept of digital identity -- assigning an identity such as "Bob" or "Alice" to a user who accesses a cloud resource or logs into a web site -- is a multifaceted one for which many solutions exist. The "right" solution is usually scenario-dependent. For example, a public-facing web site that requires users to log in to access certain pages (such as ones containing paid articles) needs an identity system that allows users outside the organization to create accounts and log in. By contrast, users who access an organization's cloud resources should be identified by the organizational accounts assigned to them by their IT staff and access from outside the organization must be carefully controlled (if allowed at all).

In this module, we will examine the core concepts behind identity in the digital realm. We will discuss the kinds of entities that can be assigned identities, including users, groups, and applications. And we will learn about techniques for extending a person's identity beyond the organizational boundaries in which it is defined so that, for example, Alice can use her organizational credentials to access on-premises resources *and* cloud resources.

Finally, we will introduce the concept of role-based access control (RBAC) and see how it is used by cloud service providers to allow their customers to govern access to the resources that they provision. RBAC is the primary mechanism used by cloud administrators to apply permissions to cloud resources and define what users are and are not allowed to do with individual resources or groups of resources. And it will play a central role in your future as a cloud administrator.
