learn-pr/azure/deploy-java-azure-pipeline-terraform/includes/4-exercise.md, before:

In this exercise, you'll configure GitHub Actions to provision your Terraform resources.

## Access the sample application

In this exercise, you'll create a GitHub repository from a template that contains all the code for Terraform provisioning.

1. On GitHub, go to the main page of the repository:

   ```html
   https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-java-petclinic-simplified
   ```

1. Above the file list, select **Use this template**.

    ![Screenshot of the "Use this template" button on the mslearn-java-petclinic-simplified main page.](../media/4-template.png)

1. In the **Repository name** box, enter a unique name for your repository. Be sure to follow the naming convention for GitHub repositories.

1. Ensure that the **Private** option is selected, and then select **Create repository from template**.

    ![Screenshot of the "Create repository from template" button on the "Create a new repository from ..." page.](../media/4-template-create.png)

## Workflow

Inside the project directory for the repository you've just created, you'll see a directory called *terraform* and, within it, a file called *main.tf*.

Let's look at a few sections that you might use define your module's configuration:

- **Provider**: A Terraform configuration file starts with the specification of the provider. When you use Azure, you specify the Azure provider (azurerm) in the provider block.
- **Terraform**: The Terraform version that you're working with.
- **Data**: Gets data from existing services.
- **Locals**: Generates new variables by using functions and expressions.
- **Resource**: Describes resources and dependencies.
- **Module**: Reusability and complexity abstraction.

Let's look at the sections you need in your *main.tf* file:

```yml
provider "azurerm" {
  version = "=2.20.0"
  features {}
}

# Creates a resource group
resource "azurerm_resource_group" "main" {
  name     = var.resource_group
  location = var.location

  tags = {
    "Terraform" = "true"
  }
}

resource "random_password" "password" {
  length = 32
  special = true
  override_special = "_%@"
}

# Creates a MySQL server
resource "azurerm_mysql_server" "main" {
  name                              = "${azurerm_resource_group.main.name}-mysql-server"
  location                          = azurerm_resource_group.main.location
  resource_group_name               = azurerm_resource_group.main.name

  administrator_login               = "petclinic"
  administrator_login_password      = random_password.password.result

  sku_name   = "B_Gen5_1"
  storage_mb = 5120
  version    = "5.7"
  auto_grow_enabled                 = true
  backup_retention_days             = 7
  geo_redundant_backup_enabled      = false
  infrastructure_encryption_enabled = false
  public_network_access_enabled     = true
  ssl_enforcement_enabled           = true
  ssl_minimal_tls_version_enforced  = "TLS1_2"
}

# The database that your application will use
resource "azurerm_mysql_database" "main" {
  name                = "${azurerm_resource_group.main.name}_mysql_db"
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.main.name
  server_name         = azurerm_mysql_server.main.name
  charset             = "utf8"
  collation           = "utf8_unicode_ci"
}

# Enables the 'Allow access to Azure services' check box
resource "azurerm_mysql_firewall_rule" "main" {
  name                = "${azurerm_resource_group.main.name}-mysql-firewall"
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.main.name
  server_name         = azurerm_mysql_server.main.name
  start_ip_address    = "0.0.0.0"
  end_ip_address      = "0.0.0.0"
}

# Creates the plan that the service uses
resource "azurerm_app_service_plan" "main" {
  name                = "${var.application_name}-plan"
  location            = azurerm_resource_group.main.location
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.main.name
  kind                = "Linux"
  reserved            = true

  sku {
    tier = "PremiumV2"
    size = "P1v2"
  }
}

# Creates the service definition
resource "azurerm_app_service" "main" {
  name                = var.application_name
  location            = azurerm_resource_group.main.location
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.main.name
  app_service_plan_id = azurerm_app_service_plan.main.id
  https_only          = true

  site_config {
    always_on        = true
    linux_fx_version = "JAVA|8-jre8"
  }

  # Contains application-specific environment variables
  app_settings = {
    "WEBSITES_ENABLE_APP_SERVICE_STORAGE" = "false"

    "SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE"     = "mysql"
    "SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL"      = "jdbc:mysql://${azurerm_mysql_server.main.fqdn}:3306/${azurerm_mysql_database.main.name}?useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=utf8&useSSL=true&useLegacyDatetimeCode=false&serverTimezone=UTC"
    "SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME" = "${azurerm_mysql_server.main.administrator_login}@${azurerm_mysql_server.main.name}"
    "SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD" = azurerm_mysql_server.main.administrator_login_password
  }
}
```

## Set up your workflow

Let's provide your GitHub workflow access to your Azure account.

In the Azure CLI, create a service principal by running the following command:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Replace *\<yourServicePrincipalName>* with the service principal name you want to use.

```azurecli
az ad sp create-for-rbac --name "<yourServicePrincipalName>" --role contributor --sdk-auth
```

The preceding command returns the following JSON. Copy it for use in the next step:

```bash
{
  "clientId": "XXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "clientSecret": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "subscriptionId": "XXXXXXXXX-XXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "tenantId": "XXXXXXXX-XXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXX",
  ...
}
```

## GitHub secrets

Your GitHub repository has a feature called Secrets, where you can store sensitive information that's used by Terraform to authenticate to Azure.

After you've created the required IDs and the secret in the preceding step, the next step in this unit is to add them to the Secrets store in your GitHub project.

For this exercise, you need to store the following secrets:
* `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`
* `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`
* `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`
* `AZURE_TENANT_ID`

To store the secrets, go to your forked GitHub repository, select **Settings**, and then select **Secrets** on the left pane.
Create a GitHub secret for each of four secrets using the values returned the Azure service principal.

Be sure to store the secrets without the quotation marks (" "), as shown in the following screenshot:

![Screenshot showing stored secrets on the Secrets pane under GitHub Settings.](../media/4-secrets.png)

## Workflow file

Inside your project directory is a directory called *.github/workflows* and, within it, a file called *main.yml*.

The *main.yml* file is a GitHub workflow. It uses the secret you've just configured to deploy your application to your Azure subscription.

In the *main.yml* workflow file is the following content:

```yml
name: TERRAFORM

on:
  push:
    branches: [ main ]
    paths:
    - 'terraform/**'
  pull_request:
    branches: [ main ]
    paths:
    - 'terraform/**'

  workflow_dispatch:
jobs:
  terraform:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    env:
      ARM_CLIENT_ID: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CLIENT_ID }}
      ARM_CLIENT_SECRET: ${{secrets.AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}}
      ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID: ${{ secrets.AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID }}
      ARM_TENANT_ID: ${{ secrets.AZURE_TENANT_ID }}

    defaults:
      run:
        working-directory: ./terraform
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Setup Terraform
        uses: hashicorp/setup-terraform@v1

      - name: Terraform Init
        run: terraform init

      - name: Terraform Plan
        run: terraform plan

      - name: Terraform Apply
        run: terraform apply -auto-approve
```

This workflow performs the following actions:

- It checks whether the configuration is formatted properly.
- It generates a plan for every pull request.
- It triggers the configuration when you update files in the *terraform* directory.

> [!NOTE]
> You can also trigger the GitHub Actions workflow by going to **Actions**, selecting the Terraform workflow, and selecting **Re-run existing Jobs**.

## Trigger the workflow

Next, in your repository, trigger your GitHub action by doing the following:

1. In the built-in GitHub text editor, or in an editor of your choice, edit *terraform/variables.tf* as follows:

   a. Change `"<CHANGE_ME_RESOURCE_GROUP>"` to your intended resource group name.  
   b. Change `"<CHANGE_ME_APP_NAME>"` to your intended application name. Make sure that your application name is unique.

    ```yaml
    variable "resource_group" {
      description = "The resource group"
      default = "<CHANGE_ME_RESOURCE_GROUP>"
    }

    variable "application_name" {
      description = "The Spring Boot application name"
      default     = "CHANGE_ME_APP_NAME"
    }

    variable "location" {
      description = "The Azure location where all resources in this example should be created"
      default     = "westeurope"
    }
    ```

1. Commit your changes.

## Verify the GitHub Actions build

1. In your repository, select **Actions**, and then select the **TERRAFORM** workflow on the left pane.

1. In the list of steps, verify that **Terraform Init**, **Terraform Plan**, and **Terraform Validate** have been triggered.

    ![Screenshot displaying the results of the Terraform workflow run.](../media/4-terraform-run.png)

1. In the list of steps, expand **Terraform Apply**, and verify that:
  
    * Terraform has created the resources and displays the Azure instance URL.
    * Your Azure app instance is publicly available.

    ![Screenshot showing that the Azure app instance is publicly available.](../media/4-template-url.png)

## Next steps

In the next exercise, you'll use GitHub Actions to deploy a sample Spring Boot application.

Commit message:

Clearer explanations based on editorial review

learn-pr/azure/deploy-java-azure-pipeline-terraform/includes/4-exercise.md, after:

In this exercise, you'll configure GitHub Actions to provision your Terraform resources.

## Access the sample application

In this exercise, you'll create a GitHub repository from a template that contains all the code for Terraform provisioning.

1. On GitHub, go to the main page of the repository:

   ```html
   https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-java-petclinic-simplified
   ```

1. Above the file list, select **Use this template**.

    ![Screenshot of the "Use this template" button on the mslearn-java-petclinic-simplified main page.](../media/4-template.png)

1. In the **Repository name** box, enter a unique name for your repository. Be sure to follow the naming convention for GitHub repositories.

1. Ensure that the **Private** option is selected, and then select **Create repository from template**.

    ![Screenshot of the "Create repository from template" button on the "Create a new repository from ..." page.](../media/4-template-create.png)

## Workflow

Inside the project directory for the repository you've just created, you'll see a directory called *terraform* and, within it, a file called *main.tf*.

Let's look at a few sections that you might use to define your module's configuration:

- **Provider**: A Terraform configuration file starts with the specification of the provider. When you use Azure, you specify the Azure provider (azurerm) in the provider block.
- **Terraform**: The Terraform version that you're working with.
- **Data**: Gets data from existing services.
- **Locals**: Generates new variables by using functions and expressions.
- **Resource**: Describes resources and dependencies.
- **Module**: Reusability and complexity abstraction.

To provision our application and database, we'll only need to include the **Provider** and **Resource** sections.

Next, open the *main.tf* file, and review the outline and comments:

```yml
provider "azurerm" {
  version = "=2.20.0"
  features {}
}

# Creates a resource group
resource "azurerm_resource_group" "main" {
  name     = var.resource_group
  location = var.location

  tags = {
    "Terraform" = "true"
  }
}

resource "random_password" "password" {
  length = 32
  special = true
  override_special = "_%@"
}

# Creates a MySQL server
resource "azurerm_mysql_server" "main" {
  name                              = "${azurerm_resource_group.main.name}-mysql-server"
  location                          = azurerm_resource_group.main.location
  resource_group_name               = azurerm_resource_group.main.name

  administrator_login               = "petclinic"
  administrator_login_password      = random_password.password.result

  sku_name   = "B_Gen5_1"
  storage_mb = 5120
  version    = "5.7"
  auto_grow_enabled                 = true
  backup_retention_days             = 7
  geo_redundant_backup_enabled      = false
  infrastructure_encryption_enabled = false
  public_network_access_enabled     = true
  ssl_enforcement_enabled           = true
  ssl_minimal_tls_version_enforced  = "TLS1_2"
}

# The database that your application will use
resource "azurerm_mysql_database" "main" {
  name                = "${azurerm_resource_group.main.name}_mysql_db"
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.main.name
  server_name         = azurerm_mysql_server.main.name
  charset             = "utf8"
  collation           = "utf8_unicode_ci"
}

# Enables the 'Allow access to Azure services' check box
resource "azurerm_mysql_firewall_rule" "main" {
  name                = "${azurerm_resource_group.main.name}-mysql-firewall"
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.main.name
  server_name         = azurerm_mysql_server.main.name
  start_ip_address    = "0.0.0.0"
  end_ip_address      = "0.0.0.0"
}

# Creates the plan that the service uses
resource "azurerm_app_service_plan" "main" {
  name                = "${var.application_name}-plan"
  location            = azurerm_resource_group.main.location
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.main.name
  kind                = "Linux"
  reserved            = true

  sku {
    tier = "PremiumV2"
    size = "P1v2"
  }
}

# Creates the service definition
resource "azurerm_app_service" "main" {
  name                = var.application_name
  location            = azurerm_resource_group.main.location
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.main.name
  app_service_plan_id = azurerm_app_service_plan.main.id
  https_only          = true

  site_config {
    always_on        = true
    linux_fx_version = "JAVA|8-jre8"
  }

  # Contains application-specific environment variables
  app_settings = {
    "WEBSITES_ENABLE_APP_SERVICE_STORAGE" = "false"

    "SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE"     = "mysql"
    "SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL"      = "jdbc:mysql://${azurerm_mysql_server.main.fqdn}:3306/${azurerm_mysql_database.main.name}?useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=utf8&useSSL=true&useLegacyDatetimeCode=false&serverTimezone=UTC"
    "SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME" = "${azurerm_mysql_server.main.administrator_login}@${azurerm_mysql_server.main.name}"
    "SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD" = azurerm_mysql_server.main.administrator_login_password
  }
}
```

## Set up your workflow

Let's provide your GitHub workflow access to your Azure account.

In the Azure CLI, create a service principal by running the following command:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Replace *\<yourServicePrincipalName>* with the service principal name you want to use.

```azurecli
az ad sp create-for-rbac --name "<yourServicePrincipalName>" --role contributor --sdk-auth
```

The preceding command returns the following JSON. Copy it for use in the next step:

```bash
{
  "clientId": "XXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "clientSecret": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "subscriptionId": "XXXXXXXXX-XXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "tenantId": "XXXXXXXX-XXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXX",
  ...
}
```

## GitHub secrets

Your GitHub repository has a feature called Secrets, where you can store sensitive information that's used by Terraform to authenticate to Azure.

After you've created the required IDs and the secret in the preceding step, the next step in this unit is to add them to the Secrets store in your GitHub project.

For this exercise, you need to store the following secrets:
* `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`
* `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET`
* `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`
* `AZURE_TENANT_ID`

To store the secrets, go to your forked GitHub repository, select **Settings**, and then select **Secrets** on the left pane.
Create a GitHub secret for each of four secrets using the values returned the Azure service principal.

Be sure to store the secrets without the quotation marks (" "), as shown in the following screenshot:

![Screenshot showing stored secrets on the Secrets pane under GitHub Settings.](../media/4-secrets.png)

## Workflow file

Inside your project directory is a directory called *.github/workflows* and, within it, a file called *main.yml*.

The *main.yml* file is a GitHub workflow. It uses the secret you've just configured to deploy your application to your Azure subscription.

In the *main.yml* workflow file is the following content:

```yml
name: TERRAFORM

on:
  push:
    branches: [ main ]
    paths:
    - 'terraform/**'
  pull_request:
    branches: [ main ]
    paths:
    - 'terraform/**'

  workflow_dispatch:
jobs:
  terraform:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    env:
      ARM_CLIENT_ID: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CLIENT_ID }}
      ARM_CLIENT_SECRET: ${{secrets.AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}}
      ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID: ${{ secrets.AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID }}
      ARM_TENANT_ID: ${{ secrets.AZURE_TENANT_ID }}

    defaults:
      run:
        working-directory: ./terraform
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Setup Terraform
        uses: hashicorp/setup-terraform@v1

      - name: Terraform Init
        run: terraform init

      - name: Terraform Plan
        run: terraform plan

      - name: Terraform Apply
        run: terraform apply -auto-approve
```

This workflow performs the following actions:

- It checks whether the configuration is formatted properly.
- It generates a plan for every pull request.
- It triggers the configuration when you update files in the *terraform* directory.

> [!NOTE]
> You can also trigger the GitHub Actions workflow by going to **Actions**, selecting the Terraform workflow, and selecting **Re-run existing Jobs**.

## Trigger the workflow

Next, in your repository, trigger your GitHub action by doing the following:

1. In the built-in GitHub text editor, or in an editor of your choice, edit *terraform/variables.tf* as follows:

   a. Change `"<CHANGE_ME_RESOURCE_GROUP>"` to your intended resource group name.  
   b. Change `"<CHANGE_ME_APP_NAME>"` to your intended application name. Make sure that your application name is unique.

    ```yaml
    variable "resource_group" {
      description = "The resource group"
      default = "<CHANGE_ME_RESOURCE_GROUP>"
    }

    variable "application_name" {
      description = "The Spring Boot application name"
      default     = "CHANGE_ME_APP_NAME"
    }

    variable "location" {
      description = "The Azure location where all resources in this example should be created"
      default     = "westeurope"
    }
    ```

1. Commit your changes.

## Verify the GitHub Actions build

1. In your repository, select **Actions**, and then select the **TERRAFORM** workflow on the left pane.

1. In the list of steps, verify that **Terraform Init**, **Terraform Plan**, and **Terraform Validate** have been triggered.

    ![Screenshot displaying the results of the Terraform workflow run.](../media/4-terraform-run.png)

1. In the list of steps, expand **Terraform Apply**, and verify that:
  
    * Terraform has created the resources and displays the Azure instance URL.
    * Your Azure app instance is publicly available.

    ![Screenshot showing that the Azure app instance is publicly available.](../media/4-template-url.png)

## Next steps

In the next exercise, you'll use GitHub Actions to deploy a sample Spring Boot application.
