learn-pr/wwl-azure/design-application-architecture/includes/11-summary-resources.md, before:

During this module, you learned how to evaluate and design an effective application architecture that provides best of Azure solutions for exchanging messages, automate deployment solutions for your applications, manage configuration, integrate with APIs, and provide appropriate caching. You have also learned how to use these services to create scalable and efficient solutions.

Now that you've completed this module, you should be able to:

- Assess different messaging patterns and architecture.

- Design a messaging architecture. 

- Recommend an event driven architecture.

- Evaluate automated deployment solutions for your applications.

- Select an application configuration management solution.

- Evaluate a solution for API integration.

- Recommend a caching solution for applications.

## Learn more with Azure documentation

- [Azure Queue storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/queues/)

- [Azure Service Bus](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/service-bus/)

- [Azure Event Grid](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/event-grid/)

- [Templates overview - Azure Resource Manager | Microsoft Docs](/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/overview)

- [An introduction to Azure Automation | Microsoft Docs](/azure/automation/automation-intro)

- [What is Azure App Configuration? | Microsoft Docs](/azure/azure-app-configuration/overview)

- [Azure API Management overview and key concepts | Microsoft Docs](/azure/api-management/api-management-key-concepts)

- [What is Azure Cache for Redis? | Microsoft Docs](/azure/azure-cache-for-redis/cache-overview)

## Learn more with self-paced training

- [Choose a messaging model in Azure to loosely connect your services - Learn ](/learn/modules/implement-message-workflows-with-service-bus/)

- [Introduction to Azure API Management - Learn ](/learn/modules/introduction-to-azure-api-management/)

- [Introduction to Event Hubs - Learn ](/learn/modules/intro-to-event-hubs/)

- [Deploy Azure infrastructure by using JSON ARM templates - Learn](/learn/modules/create-azure-resource-manager-template-vs-code/)

- [Introduction to infrastructure as code using Bicep - Learn ](/learn/modules/introduction-to-infrastructure-as-code-using-bicep/)

- [Message queues and stream processing - Learn ](/learn/modules/cmu-message-queues-streams/)

- [Communicate between applications with Azure Queue storage - Learn ](/learn/modules/communicate-between-apps-with-azure-queue-storage/)

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[5d272d82-d173-4942-a661-91882c95ad5f] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-azure/design-application-architecture/includes/11-summary-resources.md, after:

During this module, you learned how to evaluate and design an effective application architecture that provides best of Azure solutions for exchanging messages, automate deployment solutions for your applications, manage configuration, integrate with APIs, and provide appropriate caching. You have also learned how to use these services to create scalable and efficient solutions.

Now that you've completed this module, you should be able to:

- Assess different messaging patterns and architecture.

- Design a messaging architecture. 

- Recommend an event-driven architecture.

- Evaluate automated deployment solutions for your applications.

- Select an application configuration management solution.

- Evaluate a solution for API integration.

- Recommend a caching solution for applications.

## Learn more with Azure documentation

- [Azure Queue storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/queues/)

- [Azure Service Bus](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/service-bus/)

- [Azure Event Grid](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/event-grid/)

- [Templates overview - Azure Resource Manager | Microsoft Docs](/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/overview)

- [An introduction to Azure Automation | Microsoft Docs](/azure/automation/automation-intro)

- [What is Azure App Configuration? | Microsoft Docs](/azure/azure-app-configuration/overview)

- [Azure API Management overview and key concepts | Microsoft Docs](/azure/api-management/api-management-key-concepts)

- [What is Azure Cache for Redis? | Microsoft Docs](/azure/azure-cache-for-redis/cache-overview)

## Learn more with self-paced training

- [Choose a messaging model in Azure to loosely connect your services - Learn ](/learn/modules/implement-message-workflows-with-service-bus/)

- [Introduction to Azure API Management - Learn ](/learn/modules/introduction-to-azure-api-management/)

- [Introduction to Event Hubs - Learn ](/learn/modules/intro-to-event-hubs/)

- [Deploy Azure infrastructure by using JSON ARM templates - Learn](/learn/modules/create-azure-resource-manager-template-vs-code/)

- [Introduction to infrastructure as code using Bicep - Learn ](/learn/modules/introduction-to-infrastructure-as-code-using-bicep/)

- [Message queues and stream processing - Learn ](/learn/modules/cmu-message-queues-streams/)

- [Communicate between applications with Azure Queue storage - Learn ](/learn/modules/communicate-between-apps-with-azure-queue-storage/)

- [Introduction to Azure Cache for Redis - Learn](/learn/modules/intro-to-azure-cache-for-redis/)

## Learn more with optional hands-on exercises

- [Exercise - Implement a Service Bus topic and queue](/learn/modules/implement-message-workflows-with-service-bus/3-exercise-implement-a-service-bus-topic-and-queue)
