Before you can assign, monitor, configure, or protect apps, you must add them to Microsoft Intune. The users of apps and devices at your company (your company's workforce) might have several app requirements. Before adding apps to Intune and making them available to your workforce, you must assess and understand a few app fundamentals. You must understand the various types of apps that are available for Intune. You must assess the app requirements, such as the platforms and capabilities that your workforce needs. You must determine whether to use Intune to manage the devices (including apps) or have Intune manage the apps without managing the devices. Finally, you must determine the apps and capabilities that your workforce needs, and who needs them.

You can add the following app types in Intune:

 -  **Store app:** Apps that have been uploaded to either the Microsoft store, the iOS store, or the Android store are store apps. The provider of a store app maintains and provides updates to the app. You select the app in the store list and add it by using Intune as an available app for your users.
 -  **Microsoft 365 apps:** This app type makes it easy for you to assign Microsoft 365 apps to devices you manage that run Windows or macOS. You can also install apps for the Microsoft Project Online desktop client and Microsoft Visio Pro, if you own licenses for them. The apps that you want are displayed as a single entry in the list of apps on the Intune console.
 -  **Web link:** A web app is a client-server application. The server provides the web app, which includes the UI, content, and functionality. Additionally, modern web-hosting platforms commonly offer security, load balancing, and other benefits. A web app is separately maintained on the web. You use Microsoft Intune to point to this app type. You also assign the groups of users that can access this app. 
 -  **Built-in app:** The built-in app type makes it easy for you to assign curated managed apps, such as Microsoft 365 apps, to iOS and Android devices. You can assign specific apps for this app type, such as Excel, OneDrive, Outlook, Skype, and others. After you add an app, the app type is displayed as either Built-in iOS app or Built-in Android app. By using the built-in app type, you can choose which of these apps to publish to device users.
 -  **Line-of-business (LOB) app:** An LOB app is one that you add from an app installation file. For example, to install an iOS LOB app, you add the application by selecting Line-of-business app as the App type in the Add app pane. You then select the app package file (extension .ipa), which is uploaded to Intune. LOB app supports apps for Windows, Android and iOS. The following extensions are supported:
    
     -  Windows: .msi, .appx, appxbundle, .msix and .msixbundle
     -  Android: .apk
     -  iOS: .ipa and .intunemac
 -  **Windows app (Win32):** Building upon the existing support for line-of-business (LOB) apps and Microsoft Store apps, administrators can use Intune to deploy most of their organization’s existing Win32 line-of-business (LOB) applications to end users on Windows devices. Administrators can add, install, and uninstall applications for Windows users in various formats, such as MSIs, Setup.exe, or MSP. Intune evaluates requirement rules before downloading and installing, notifying end users of the status or reboot requirements using the Windows Action Center.
