*Vector search* is a new capability available in AI Search used to index, store and retrieve vector embedding from a search index. You can use it to power applications implementing the Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) architecture, similarity and multi-modal searches or recommendation engines.

Below is an illustration of the indexing and query workflows for vector search.

:::image type="content" source="../media/vector-search-architecture-diagram.png" alt-text="Diagram of the indexing and query workflows.":::

A vector query can be used to match criteria across different types of source data by providing a mathematical representation of the content generated by machine learning models. This eliminates the limitations of text based searches returning relevant results by using the intent of the query.  

## When to use vector search

Here are some scenarios where you should use vector search:

- Use OpenAI or open source models to encode text, and use queries encoded as vectors to retrieve documents.
- Do a similarity search across encoded images, text, video and audio, or a mixture of these (multi-modal).
- Represent documents in different languages using a multi-lingual embedded model to find documents in any language.
- Build hybrid searched from vector and searchable text fields as vector searches are implemented at field level. The results will be merged to return a single response.
- Apply filters to text and numeric fields and include this in your query to reduce the data that your vector search needs to process.
- To create a vector database to provide an external knowledge base or use as a long term memory.

## Limitations

There are a few limitations when using vector search, which you should note:

- You'll need to provide the embeddings using Azure OpenAI or a similar open source solution, as Azure AI Search doesn't generate these for your content.
- Customer Managed Keys (CMK) aren't supported.
- There are storage limitations applicable so you should check what your service quota provides.

> [!NOTE]
> If your documents are large, you consider chunking. Use the [Chunking large documents for vector search solutions in AI Search](/azure/search/vector-search-how-to-chunk-documents) documentation for more information.
