Node.js allows JavaScript to be used in so many places outside of the browser, like on the server-side for instance. There are several notable features offered by Node.js, which makes it of great interest.

Node.js (also known as Node for short) is a wrapper around the infamous JavaScript runtime V8 created by Google. V8 powers many browsers including Google Chrome, Opera, and Microsoft Edge. Node brought many optimizations to V8 allowing it to work outside of the browser. For instance, when using Node to run a Web server, manipulating binary files and content is often mandatory; Node has enriched V8 with a Buffer API for these use cases.

Thanks to V8 and the modern techniques in the Compiler Optimizations space such as [JIT](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Just-in-time_compilation), [Concurrent Speculative Optimization](https://ponyfoo.com/articles/an-introduction-to-speculative-optimization-in-v8), etc. JavaScript, which is considered to be a high-level programming language is now capable of producing the same performance results as the low-level languages such as C. In addition to this performance boost introduced by V8, Node takes advantage of the JavaScript language capabilities: The Event-Driven model. Implementing server-side async tasks has become an easy task thanks to Node and JavaScript.

In order to support the powerful event-based programming model, Node has a built-in set of non-blocking I/O APIs (and interfaces) to deal with common tasks such as filesystem or database manipulation: When you request Node to read some file content from disk, Node doesn't block waiting for the disk and the file descriptors to be ready; instead, the non-blocking I/O interface notifies Node when the file is ready. This non-blocking I/O works the same way when the browser notifies your code when a mouse or keyboard event has been triggered or when an XHR response has been received from a remote endpoint.

Even if it's not related to Node (see: [Server-Side JavaScript technologies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_server-side_JavaScript_implementations)), the fact that JavaScript was chosen as the main programming language for the Node runtime was a great choice! Whether we like it or not, browsers support only a restricted set of technologies to build front-end Web application. If we want to share some code, for example, forms validations rules, between the browsers and the server, JavaScript is the only choice. This is more relevant nowadays due to the rise of Single Page Applications, where JavaScript is the Lingua Franca in front-end development. In addition, JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a widely used data exchange format and JavaScript happens to have native support for it. Many NoSQL database technologies such as CouchDB and MongoDB use JavaScript and JSON as a query and schemas format.
