learn-pr/aspnetcore/build-web-api-minimal-spa/includes/7-exercise-use-design-system.md, before:

Use a design system to improve the appearance of your app.

## Install Material UI

To install Material UI, run the following command:

```bash
npm install @mui/material @emotion/react @emotion/styled @mui/icons-material
```

## Import Material UI

To import Material UI to your React app, replace the code in `main.jsx` with the following code:

:::code language="javascript" source="../code/with-components-with-style/main.jsx":::

The code imports the ThemeProvider and createTheme components from Material UI and creates a default theme using the createTheme function. The ThemeProvider component is then used to wrap the Pizza component and apply the default theme to the app. Additionally, the CssBaseline component is imported and used to apply a baseline CSS to the app.

## Pizza component

Because the `pizza.jsx` file controls state but doesn't apply styles or components to rendering the pizza list, you don't need to add anything to this page.

## PizzaList component

Material UI provides a lot of functionality. For this unit, change the Pizza List to be more engaging with styles and icons. Open `PizzaList.jsx` and replace the code with the following code. Notice that only the `return ()` section is changed.

:::code language="javascript" source="../code/with-components-with-style/PizzaList.jsx" highlight="61-88":::

In the `PizzaList` component, the Material UI components TextField, Button, Box, List, ListItem, ListItemText, ListItemSecondaryAction, and IconButton are imported and used to create a list of pizza items. 

* The **Box** component is used to wrap the form elements and add spacing between them. 
* The **List** component is used to display the list of pizza items. 
* The **ListItem** component is used to display each pizza item in the list. 
* The **ListItemText** component is used to display the name and description of each pizza item. 
* The **ListItemSecondaryAction** component is used to display the edit and delete buttons for each pizza item. 
* The **IconButton** component is used to create the edit and delete buttons. 
* The **TextField** component is used to create the input fields for the name and description of each pizza item. 
* The **Button** component is used to create the create, update, and cancel buttons.

## Test the new design

1. If you stopped your front-end app, run the following command to start the app:

    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

1. Open a browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/design-system-form.png" alt-text="Screenshoot of Pizza form with styled components.":::

Commit message:

fix stop/start/terminal for design system in dev container.

learn-pr/aspnetcore/build-web-api-minimal-spa/includes/7-exercise-use-design-system.md, after:

Use a design system to improve the appearance of your app.

## Install Material UI

1. Right-click the **PizzaClient** subfolder and select **Open in integrated terminal**.
1. Run the following command to install the Material UI components:

    ```bash
    npm install @mui/material @emotion/react @emotion/styled @mui/icons-material
    ```

## Import Material UI

To import Material UI to your React app, replace the code in `main.jsx` with the following code:

:::code language="javascript" source="../code/with-components-with-style/main.jsx":::

The code imports the ThemeProvider and createTheme components from Material UI and creates a default theme using the createTheme function. The ThemeProvider component is then used to wrap the Pizza component and apply the default theme to the app. Additionally, the CssBaseline component is imported and used to apply a baseline CSS to the app.

## Pizza component

Because the `pizza.jsx` file controls state but doesn't apply styles or components to rendering the pizza list, you don't need to add anything to this page.

## PizzaList component

Material UI provides a lot of functionality. For this unit, change the Pizza List to be more engaging with styles and icons. Open `PizzaList.jsx` and replace the code with the following code. Notice that only the `return ()` section is changed.

:::code language="javascript" source="../code/with-components-with-style/PizzaList.jsx" highlight="61-88":::

In the `PizzaList` component, the Material UI components TextField, Button, Box, List, ListItem, ListItemText, ListItemSecondaryAction, and IconButton are imported and used to create a list of pizza items. 

* The **Box** component is used to wrap the form elements and add spacing between them. 
* The **List** component is used to display the list of pizza items. 
* The **ListItem** component is used to display each pizza item in the list. 
* The **ListItemText** component is used to display the name and description of each pizza item. 
* The **ListItemSecondaryAction** component is used to display the edit and delete buttons for each pizza item. 
* The **IconButton** component is used to create the edit and delete buttons. 
* The **TextField** component is used to create the input fields for the name and description of each pizza item. 
* The **Button** component is used to create the create, update, and cancel buttons.

## Test the new design

1. Wait for Vite to reload the front-end React app.

1. Return to the browser and test the app.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/design-system-form.png" alt-text="Screenshoot of Pizza form with styled components.":::
