Businesses don’t merely function to reap profit – businesses influence and impact both the physical and natural world, including our experience as humans on this earth. In a recent Accenture survey, 50 percent of consumers said the pandemic caused them to rethink their personal purpose and reevaluate what’s important to them in life. Of the consumers who have reconsidered what’s important to them, 72 percent expect companies they’re doing business with to understand and account for their changing needs and objectives during times of disruption.<sup>1</sup> Consumers are increasingly aware of and concerned about this relationship, which is one reason many businesses have embedded corporate social responsibility (CSR) into their organization’s mission. Forbes defines CSR as: “a business’s obligation to pursue achievable and good long-term goals for its people and the world at large.”<sup>2</sup> CSR established a foundation for businesses to think critically about their impacts beyond profit margins, but without being quantifiable, it’s hard to tell how much impact CSR has.

This is why Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) scores have emerged as a more tactical way of measuring business performance, commitment, and effectiveness around categories related to ethics such as emissions and human rights. ESG scores enable socially conscious consumers, partners, and investors alike to evaluate and influence which company they purchase from, partner with, and invest in. Individuals and communities are increasingly looking beyond just the products and services businesses provide; they want to invest in causes and support organizations that use innovation to benefit society and the environment.  

Implementing strategies that reflect the values of your stakeholders and the wider community has clear business benefits:

* **Gain a competitive advantage:** If you successfully evolve your market offerings to complement and address changing consumer behaviors and expectations, there’s a huge market opportunity to grab. For example, in the banking industry, traditional services such as loan offerings, cash storage, and payment management have persisted overtime, but the process for supporting these services has evolved to support the digital era of banking. Banking customers are shifting more and more to digital channels for communicating with their banks and managing their assets. Leading banks transformed traditional in-person paper-based processes and services to digital portals and remote management. Evolving your business in parallel with customer needs helps attract and retain customers, enabling your business to stay competitive overtime.  
* **Attract investor interests:** Understanding a businesses’ level of risk has always been an important factor for stock investors when determining which companies to invest in. The ESG Risk Assessment criteria measures how sustainable companies perform and how they manage their relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, and the community. The assessment also reveals how a company manages executive pay, audits, and shareholder rights.<sup>3</sup> ESG Risk Assessment motivates businesses to leverage innovation as a foundation to raise the score to one that is more valued by investors and people. After all, now more than ever, how organizations make their money is informing consumer preferences and buying behavior.
* **Investing in the future:** Lastly, implementing CSR business model and ESG practices provide tangible benefits to the people, communities, and the environment they support. Microsoft has invested in sustainability and environmental impact as climate change has become more severe, the need for research has become more prevalent, and consumers have begun changing their preferences and behaviors to favor companies with environmental commitments. By 2030, at Microsoft, our goal is to be carbon negative—this means by that date, we’ll have removed from the environment more carbon than we emit. As the one-year anniversary of this pledge approaches, we reduced our carbon emissions by six percent, roughly 730,000 metric tons.<sup>4</sup> OceanMind has taken a similar approach to investing in the future. They’re a non-profit organization leveraging technology to power marine enforcement and compliance to protect the world’s ocean. OceanMind is using AI to help identify which vessels in the ocean pose the greatest risk to fisheries, labor, human trafficking, and human right violations.

Implementing these strategies have clear benefits, but it also requires intent. Empowering your organization to approach innovation not only creates competitive business advantages, but also sets an important precedent for fostering a resilient society.
