We know that innovative technologies can be incredibly effective when applied to real-world problems, especially in the hands of those with vast reach and influence. In other words, businesses represent the needs of communities and individuals, but are in a greater position to use influence to solve problems with technology. However, technology alone isn’t enough to address today’s most pressing societal issues that deeply impact communities around the world. Businesses also need to understand the diverse perspectives within their customer communities—and greater societal communities—to effectively reach them. The fastest way to achieve this is by establishing connections that bring those perspectives directly into the fold.

One way to go about this is building a relationship with broad coalitions spanning government, business, and civil society, especially community-based organizations with a history of trusted support. Both technology companies and community organizations have a bias for action, but only community organizations have the domain knowledge to design and deliver solutions in the best interests of affected communities. They can provide valuable insight to help you establish a responsible approach to innovation that considers the impact upon vulnerable communities.

Additionally, organizations should look to partner externally with other organizations, even going as far as enabling coinnovation with customers. In fact, 60 percent of companies that outperform recognize they need to stand for something bigger than just the products and services they sell and seeking the best outcome for their customers is their top priority.<sup>5</sup>

But you can’t just account for your customers interests, it’s also important to include how vulnerable communities could be impacted by the work you’re doing. Serving vulnerable communities requires an understanding of their immediate needs and concerns. As an organization, do your part in researching the needs of the communities and how you can innovate ideas and technology to support the company's mission and the community.

It’s important to remember that sometimes, businesses just can’t solve everything on their own. The necessity of specialized partnerships as needs and issues become more specific require external collaboration.

Now, let’s read up on how UCB demonstrates collaboration with external partnership to show case their commitment to the community and foster resilience.
