As the last 30 years have demonstrated, the number of devices and software generating data has increased exponentially to meet today's business and user needs.  Businesses are tasked to store, interpret, manage, transform, process, aggregate, and report this data to interested parties. These parties include internal management, investors, business partners, regulatory bodies, and consumers.  

Data consumers view data using web browsers, PCs, tablets, and mobile devices in either a connected or disconnected state.  They can both generate and use data both in the workplace and during leisure time with social media application. Business stakeholders use data to make business decisions, and consumers use the data to help them make decisions such as purchasing decisions as an example.  Finally, in areas such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Azure Machine Learning (Azure ML) can consume the data and make decisions instead of humans.

Many forms of data exist including text, data stream, audio, video, metadata, structured data, unstructured data, and aggregated data.  With structured data, the data architect defines the structure (schema) during the creation of the data storage at design-time in platform technologies such as Azure SQL Database or Azure SQL Data Warehouse.  With unstructured (NoSQL) databases, each data element can have its own schema at query time. Data can be stored as a file (Azure Blob Storage), or as NoSQL data in Azure Cosmos DB or HDInsight.

Data engineers are responsible for maintaining data systems that are accurate, highly secure, and constantly available while complying with applicable regulations such as GDPR or industry standards such as PCI-DSS.  Data can be located anywhere, on-premises, or in the cloud, and it can be processed either in real time or in a batch. International companies may also have special requirements to provide data to conform to regional norms such as the local language and date format.

Microsoft Azure provides a comprehensive and rich set of data tools and technologies to provide businesses the ability to store, transform, process, analyze, and visualize a wide variety of data formats in a secure way.  As data formats continue to evolve, Microsoft continually releases new technologies to the Microsoft Azure platform.  Microsoft Azure customers can explore these new technologies while in preview mode.  Leveraging Microsoft Azure's on-demand subscription model, customers can keep their costs to a minimum, paying only for what they consume when they need it.