Migrating classic Azure Pipelines to YAML-based configurations offers a more efficient approach to defining and managing CI/CD pipelines. YAML enables version-controlled, code-like representations of pipelines, enhancing maintainability and flexibility compared to the traditional UI-based approach. By transitioning to YAML, development teams can leverage code review processes, reuse pipeline configurations across repositories, and easily track changes over time.

## Pipeline conversion

The Azure DevOps portal includes the feature that facilitates migration from classic build pipelines to their YAML equivalents. You can access it via the Export to YAML context sensitive menu option of individual build pipelines. Selecting this option automatically generates a file containing the YAML representation of the converted content and downloads it to your computer. The classic pipeline is left intact.

The conversion process provides support for the following features:

 -  All tasks and all inputs
 -  Event and schedule-based triggers
 -  Individual and multiple jobs
 -  Job and step conditions
 -  Checkout options
 -  Execution plan parallelism
 -  Pool selection

There are, however, two features which aren't converted:

 -  Variables: Variables in a classic pipeline are excluded from the conversion process. Instead, they're mentioned by name in the comments of the autogenerated YAML pipeline as a reminder that you need to configure them manually.
 -  Time zone translation: Classic pipeline schedules are in the organization's time zone, while cron schedules in YAML are in UTC. To avoid any potential time zone conversion issues, the schedule is exported in its original format. This is also captured in the comments included in the new pipeline.

For release pipelines, you can leverage the View YAML link available for individual pipeline tasks. Selecting the link generates the YAML code corresponding to the configuration of the task. This helps to identify the underlying YAML syntax used to define the task. Note that this code doesn't include values of the individual task properties but instead substitutes them with variables. To set the values, refer to the graphical interface of the task and compare it against its YAML representation.

There's no equivalent option to view the YAML at the job or stage level. Effectively, this part of the conversion relies on your familiarity with the syntax of YAML pipelines.

## Pipeline authoring

For those who are relatively new to YAML pipelines, Azure DevOps offers Task Assistant. Implemented as an extra pane displayed on the right side of the YAML pipeline editor page, the assistant helps with creating and modifying YAML steps. Unlike the View YAML feature, it works directly in the YAML pipeline. It simplifies the process of authoring a pipeline by providing a listing of tasks, which you can individually select, configure via a graphical interface, and add to the pipeline in the YAML format.

In addition, the Task Assistant provides intelligent autocomplete suggestions based on the context of the pipeline, inline documentation for task parameters to aid in understanding their usage, real-time validation to catch syntax errors or missing parameters, and the ability to search for specific tasks or task groups available in the Azure DevOps marketplace.
