Power Apps is a suite of apps, services, and connectors, as well as a data platform that provides a rapid development environment to build custom apps for your business needs. Using Power Apps, you can quickly build custom business apps that connect to your data stored either in the underlying data platform (Microsoft Dataverse) or in various online and on-premises data sources (such as SharePoint, Microsoft 365, Dynamics 365, SQL Server, and so on). Applications built with Power Apps offer business logic that can help you transform your manual business functions into automated processes. These applications can be accessed via mobile devices or the browser, enabling users to create custom apps without writing code.

:::image type="content" source="../media/powerapp-hero-image.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Power Apps hero image." lightbox="../media/powerapp-hero-image.png":::

Power Apps provides an extensible platform for users with minimal coding experience. In addition, creators find it easy to interact with data and metadata while using Power Apps.

Through Power Apps, you can create *canvas applications*. Creating a canvas app in Power Apps is as easy as dragging and dropping components onto the canvas, similar to how you create a PowerPoint presentation. You can also integrate business logic through various data sources.

Technology has paved the way and made our lives easier, faster, and better. Power Apps enables people who seek to enrich their business logic and workflow capabilities through automation,  transforming business operations into seamless digital experiences. One such budding area is Sales. A salesperson can use mixed reality to have immersive sales conversations and optimize brand performance. Sellers can use Power Apps to provide on-demand visualizations that allow potential customers to view products virtually in the comfort of their home. This helps the customers understand the risks and constraints of the products before committing to them.

In this module, you'll learn to create, build, and design the customized *Easy-Sales* application, which works across the Web and mobile. *Easy-Sales* is a sales-oriented application that uses mixed reality and allows potential customers to visualize virtual furniture in their real-world environments.

In addition, you'll learn how to connect a data source to Power Apps. You'll use mixed reality components like Measure in MR and View in MR in your application. Finally, you'll be equipped with all the tools and techniques required to develop a proper application that you can deploy to consumer audiences.
