In this module, you learn about using Azure Digital Twins to build a digital representation of a real-world environment that organizes IoT and business data, and is queriable to enable business insights.

Suppose you work in the IT department of a manufacturing company that owns several factories. Each factory features a number of robotic arms that pick up boxes and move them to the next stage in the manufacturing process, and each arm is equipped with a sensor that indicates whether the latest box was successfully picked up. Lately, some of the factory operators have reported decreased overall production efficiency, and suspect that some of the arms are missing packages and taking time to try again. As a developer, you've been tasked with designing a digital solution that factory operators can use to monitor overall efficiency of the box pickups, and quickly identify specific machines that are under-performing so they can be investigated, repaired, or replaced.

In this module, you'll explore how Azure Digital Twins can digitally represent the connected arms in this factory, and bring those representations to life by combining contextual business information with IoT data. You'll view the digital environment as 2D and 3D representations, and understand how the digital twins can be queried to gain insights about the real environment—both at the present moment, and from patterns in historized data over time.

After completing this module, you'll be able to describe how models, twins, and relationships are used in Azure Digital Twins to represent components of a real-world IoT environment in a digital graph, which is live and queriable. This will help you to evaluate whether Azure Digital Twins is appropriate for digitally representing your own IoT environment.
