Watch this video from Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer of Microsoft, as she discusses how is she leading the digital transformation journey in her organization, how has she empowered her employees during this journey, and what has she learned about the role of culture throughout this process.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RWunSH]

With AI, the way finance operates and builds a business partnership, is less about on reporting the past, and far more about influencing the future. This is a significant shift in how to think about a finance department.

That said, to get to such a place within a finance department requires significant change beyond the adoption of new technologies. When exploring digitally transforming with AI, the list of questions to consider about how the transformation needs to involve and be carried out by team members is longer than the questions than one has about the various technologies. How are you going to make it important for each team members to get comfortable with new technology? How are you going to incentivize them to learn and not be afraid of moving forward with this process? And how are you going to motivate them?

As Hood explains of the finance team at Microsoft “what we needed was a bravery and a willingness to learn, and understand that they already knew what we needed from them. We needed to understand the business outcome, we needed their expertise to understand the variables it impacted, and we needed them to work with experts to help take their knowledge, and build tools that would make their job easier, and make the outcomes better.” With AI it is about the technology and the people working hand in hand.

Next, learn how the Microsoft finance organization leveraged the expertise of our employees to identify opportunities to implement AI across the organization. From improving the accuracy of our revenue forecasts to reducing the strain on employees through automation to better risk prediction, AI is saving our finance team hundreds of hours per month, while enabling better business decision-making and risk mitigation.