Microsoft Entra ID is a Microsoft-managed, cloud-based, identity and access management solution. It provides secure access for organizations and individuals to various cloud-resident services, including Azure, Office 365, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, and Microsoft Intune. It can also be used to facilitate seamless authentication to on-premises applications.

Microsoft Entra ID offers multitenancy and scalability:

- **Multitenancy**: Microsoft Entra ID is multitenant by design, ensuring isolation between its individual directory instances. The term tenant in this context typically represents an individual, company, or organization that signed up for a subscription to a Microsoft cloud-based service such as Office 365, Windows Intune, or Microsoft Azure, each of which uses Microsoft Entra ID. However, from a technical standpoint, the term tenant represents an individual Microsoft Entra instance. As an Azure customer, you can create multiple Microsoft Entra tenants. This is useful if you want to test Microsoft Entra functionality in one without affecting the others. Each Microsoft Entra tenant serves as a security boundary and a container for Microsoft Entra objects such as users, groups, and applications.
- **Scalability**: Microsoft Entra ID is the world’s largest multitenant directory, hosting over a million directory services instances, with billions of authentication requests per week.

Microsoft Online business services, such as Office 365 or Microsoft Azure, require Microsoft Entra ID for sign in and to help with identity protection. If you subscribe to any Microsoft Online business service, you automatically get Microsoft Entra ID with access to all the free features.

To enhance your Microsoft Entra implementation, you can also add paid capabilities by upgrading to Microsoft Entra Basic, Premium P1, or Premium P2 licenses. Microsoft Entra paid licenses are built on top of your existing free directory, providing self-service, enhanced monitoring, security reporting, and secure access for your mobile users.

- **Microsoft Entra ID Free**: Provides user and group management, on-premises directory synchronization, basic reports, and single sign-on across Azure, Office 365, and many popular SaaS apps.
- **Microsoft Entra Basic**: In addition to the Free features, Basic also provides cloud-centric app access, group-based access management, self-service password reset for cloud apps, and Microsoft Entra application proxy, which lets you publish on-premises web apps using Microsoft Entra ID.
- **Microsoft Entra ID P1**: In addition to the Free and Basic features, P1 also lets your hybrid users access both on-premises and cloud resources. It also supports advanced administration, such as dynamic groups, self-service group management, Microsoft Identity Manager (an on-premises identity and access management suite), and cloud write-back capabilities, which allow self-service password reset for your on-premises users.
- **Microsoft Entra ID P2**: In addition to the Free, Basic, and P1 features, P2 also offers Microsoft Entra ID Protection to help provide risk-based Conditional Access to your apps and critical company data; and Privileged Identity Management (PIM) to help discover, restrict, and monitor administrators and their access to resources and to provide just-in-time access when needed.

Each Azure subscription is associated with one, and only one, Microsoft Entra tenant. Besides providing authentication, this association also facilitates authorization, allowing you to grant permissions to resources in the Azure subscription (via Role Based Access Control) to users, groups, and service principals that exist in that particular Microsoft Entra tenant. Note that individual Microsoft Entra tenant can be associated with multiple Azure subscriptions. This allows you to use the same users, groups, and service principals to access and manage resources across multiple Azure subscriptions.

Many applications built on different platforms such as .NET, Java, Node.js, and PHP can use industry-standard protocols such as Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0, Web Services Federation (WS-Federation), and OpenID Connect to integrate with the identity management provided by Microsoft Entra ID. With the support of Open Authorization (OAuth 2.0), developers can develop mobile and web service applications that use Microsoft Entra ID for cloud authentication and access management. They can also take advantage of the support for Microsoft Entra ID across several PaaS services, such as Azure Web Apps or Azure SQL Database.

Organizations that use AD DS can synchronize users and groups from their Active Directory domains with Microsoft Entra ID to enable an SSO experience for their users accessing both on-premises and cloud-based applications.

> [!NOTE]
> To learn more about the functionality that implements Microsoft Entra authentication for Linux VMs, see [Log in to a Linux virtual machine in Azure by using Microsoft Entra ID and OpenSSH](/azure/active-directory/devices/howto-vm-sign-in-azure-ad-linux).
