In this exercise, you will register an IoT Edge Device within Azure IoT Hub, and an IoT Device that is configured in a child relationship. This will enable the scenario to the the child IoT Device send messages through the IoT Edge Device as a gateway before communicating to the Azure IoT Hub in the cloud.

The use of Parent / Child relationships including an IoT Edge Gateway (the parent) and other IoT Devices (the child or leaf devices) enables the use of Offline capabilities within an Azure IoT solution.

In this scenario, the child device connects to, and authenticate against the parent IoT Edge Device using their Azure IoT Hub credentials. Once authenticated, the child IoT Device sends messages to the Edge Hub ($edgeHub) on the IoT Edge Device. Once messages reach the parent IoT Edge Device, the IoT Edge Modules and Routing will handle the messages as configured; including sending the messages to the Azure IoT Hub when connected.

When the parent IoT Edge Device is disconnected (or loses connection to the Azure IoT Hub) it will automatically store all device messages to the IoT Edge Device. Once the connection is restored, the IoT Edge Device will resume connectivity and send any stored messages to Azure IoT Hub. Messages stored on the IoT Edge Device may expire according to the Time-to-Live (TTL) configurations for the device; which defaults to store messages for up to 7200 seconds (two hours).

## Setting up the IoT Edge Parent with Child IoT Devices

1. If necessary, log in to your Azure portal using your Azure account credentials.
If you have more than one Azure account, be sure that you are logged in with the account that is tied to the subscription that you will be using for this course.

1. At the top of the Azure Portal click on the **Cloud Shell** icon to open up the **Azure Cloud Shell** within the Azure Portal. When the pane opens, choose the option for the **Bash** terminal within the Cloud Shell.

1. First the IoT Edge Device Identity needs to be created. This will be the IoT Edge Gateway, or the Parent IoT Device. Run the following command to create a new IoT Edge Device Identity within Azure IoT Hub:

  ```bash
    az iot hub device-identity create --edge-enabled --hub-name AZ-220-HUB-_{YOUR-ID}_ --auth-method shared_private_key --device-id  IoTEdgeGateway
  ```
  ***Note:*** Be sure to replace the **AZ-220-HUB-_{YOUR-ID}_** IoT Hub name with the name of your Azure IoT Hub.

  Notice the az iot hub device-identity create command is called by passing in several parameters:

    -- hub-name: This required parameter is used to specify the name of the Azure IoT Hub to add the new device to.

    -- device-id: This required parameter is used to specify the Device ID of the IoT Device being created.

    -- edge-enabled: This specifies the IoT Device being created is an IoT Edge Device and it will be enabled for IoT Edge.

    -- auth-method: This specifies the authentication method used for the IoT device. The value of shared_private_key specifies to use Symmetric Key Encryption. Other options available are x509_ca and x509_thumbprint.

1. Notice when the command completes, there is a blog of JSON returned to the terminal. This JSON includes a few details for the configuration of the IoT Edge Device that was just created. Among the device details is the symmetric keys that were auto-generated by the service for the device.

   ```JSON
        {
          "authentication": {
            "symmetricKey": {
              "primaryKey": "gOAYooDeRrinZzyo0yWZNEkvc0wZaF9/4qaXv7s7olw=",
              "secondaryKey": "MzE5VtKJzOO6HGnNkI4kyn+MCziUYXZ/MSJCKxHIHa0="
            },
            "type": "sas",
            "x509Thumbprint": {
              "primaryThumbprint": null,
              "secondaryThumbprint": null
            }
          },
          "capabilities": {
            "iotEdge": true
          },
          "cloudToDeviceMessageCount": 0,
          "connectionState": "Disconnected",
          "connectionStateUpdatedTime": "0001-01-01T00:00:00",
          "deviceId": "IoTEdgeGateway",
          "deviceScope": "ms-azure-iot-edge://IoTEdgeGateway-637121074930370650",
          "etag": "Nzk1MjE0NjM2",
          "generationId": "637121074930370650",
          "lastActivityTime": "0001-01-01T00:00:00",
          "status": "enabled",
          "statusReason": null,
          "statusUpdatedTime": "0001-01-01T00:00:00"
        }
   ```

1. Run the following command to retrieve the Connection String from IoT Hub for the IoTEdgeGateway Device, and copy the connection string value for reference later:
 
   ```bash
    az iot hub device-identity show-connection-string --hub-name AZ-220-HUB-_{YOUR-ID}_ --device-id IoTEdgeGateway -o tsv
   ```

  ***Note:*** Be sure to replace the AZ-220-HUB-_{YOUR-ID}_ IoT Hub name with the name of your Azure IoT Hub.

  Notice the az iot hub device-identity show-connection-string command is called by passing in several parameters:

    -- hub-name: This required parameter is used to specify the name of the **Azure IoT Hub** to add the new device to.

    -- device-id: This required parameter is used to specify the **Device ID** of the IoT Device being created.

  The IoT Hub connection string output from the **IoTEdgeGateway** device will be in the following format:

   ```bash
    HostName={iot-hub-name}.azure-devices.net;DeviceId=IoTEdgeGateway;SharedAccessKey={shared-access-key}
   ```

1. To create the first child device, run the following command:

   ```bash
    az iot hub device-identity create -n AZ-220-HUB-_{YOUR-ID}_ --device-id ChildDevice1 --pd IoTEdgeGateway
   ```

  ***Note:*** Be sure to replace the **AZ-220-HUB-_{YOUR-ID}_** IoT Hub name with the name of your Azure IoT Hub.

  This command is passed the following parameters:

    -n: This required parameter is the shorthand for --hub-name and is used to specify the name of the **Azure IoT Hub** to add the new device to.

    -- device-id: This required parameter is used to specify the **Device ID** of the IoT Device being created.

    -- pd: This parameter specifies the **Parent Device** for the IoT Device being created. The value passed in must be the **Device ID** of the **Parent Device** to assign this **Child Device** to.

  Notice that this command is not passing in the --auth-method. By omitting this parameter, the default value of shared_private_key will be used.

1. Notice when the command completes, there is a blog of JSON returned to the terminal. This JSON includes a few details for the configuration of the IoT Device that was just created. Notice the symmetricKey node that contains the Symmetric Keys that can be used to authenticate the device with Azure IoT Hub, or when the child device connects to the parent IoT Edge Gateway.

  Copy the primaryKey for this IoT Device so it can be used later.

   ```JSON
        {
          "authentication": {
            "symmetricKey": {
              "primaryKey": "uMhYoXK/WRoXrIATh25aijyEbA401PKDxy4KCS488U4=",
              "secondaryKey": "9tOPmSkmoqRd2KEP1JFyQQ6y2JdA5HPO7qnckFrBVm4="
            },
            "type": "sas",
            "x509Thumbprint": {
              "primaryThumbprint": null,
              "secondaryThumbprint": null
            }
          },
          "capabilities": {
            "iotEdge": false
          },
          "cloudToDeviceMessageCount": 0,
          "connectionState": "Disconnected",
          "connectionStateUpdatedTime": "0001-01-01T00:00:00",
          "deviceId": "ChildDevice1",
          "deviceScope": "ms-azure-iot-edge://IoTEdgeGateway-637121074930370650",
          "etag": "MTgxNjg1MjE0",
          "generationId": "637121169262975883",
          "lastActivityTime": "0001-01-01T00:00:00",
          "status": "enabled",
          "statusReason": null,
          "statusUpdatedTime": "0001-01-01T00:00:00"
        }
   ```

1. Run the following command to retrieve the Connection String from IoT Hub for the IoTEdgeGateway Device, and copy the connection string value for reference later:

   ```bash
    az iot hub device-identity show-connection-string --hub-name AZ-220-HUB-_{YOUR-ID}_ --device-id ChildDevice1 -o tsv
   ```

  ***Note:*** Be sure to replace the **AZ-220-HUB-_{YOUR-ID}_** IoT Hub name with the name of your Azure IoT Hub.

1. Now you have an IoT Edge Device and a Child IoT Device registered within Azure IoT Hub. The IoT Device is configured with the IoT Edge Device as its parent. This configuration will enable the Child IoT Device to connect to and communicate with the Parent IoT Edge Device; instead of connecting directly with Azure IoT Hub. Configuring the IoT device topology this way enables Offline capable scenarios where the IoT Device and IoT Edge Device can keep working even when connectivity to Azure IoT Hub is broken.
