Within an organization, employees have the potential to contribute to the industry-changing transformation. Whether it’s seeking new ideas or implementing new techniques to solve complex business problems, achieving an innovative mindset is all about improved performance and forward-thinking. That means you’re willing to take risks to support ideation and experimentation while continuing to support proactive mitigation strategies to take advantage of new opportunities and stay ahead of future problems. Forward-thinking business leaders embrace innovation continuously and understand that cross-domain collaboration is essential in adapting and overcoming disruption.

Crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic have transitioned the way organizations compete and remain resilient. In a survey of 200 organizations across industries, more than 90 percent of executives said that the way they’ll do business in the next five years has fundamentally changed due to the pandemic.<sup>1</sup> The success of these fundamental changes go hand in hand with embracing an innovative mindset. For example, when the pandemic shut down in-store operations, retailers had to find new ways to reskill employees and brainstorm how to innovate and stay open. For many brick and mortar retailers, this meant innovating their operations to support e-commerce for the first time. Innovating to adapt often requires communicating and collaborating across roles to expand the pool of ideas and gain buy-in across the business. After all, empowering employees to be more productive, collaborate effectively, and stay connected in all circumstances helps adapt with new approaches to talent management and development.

Organizations can also equip their people with tools and guidance to further resilient solutions. For example, at Microsoft, we launched the Growth and Resilience in Tech toolkit. This toolkit provides nine, free educational modules covering three core principles: recognize discomfort, strategize solutions, and pivot and persist. The mission of this toolkit is to help build a more inclusive future for the tech industry by fostering confidence, a growth mindset, resilience, and a sense of belonging. Bringing everyone on the same page to find new ways to support evolving business needs can happen faster, with more success when employees feel included and empowered by their company culture.
