As the lead Web developer for Contoso Fashions, you now want a quick view of your new Web app's operation. You know there will be issues, so rather than having to find and open log files, you want to use log streaming as a quick way to view logged messages as you troubleshoot your app.

In this unit, you're going to use Azure CLI and Curl commands to view the live log stream generated by your Web app.

## Use Azure CLI to view the live log stream

The ASP.NET app that you've deployed includes the following code for the home page.

```csharp
logger.LogInformation("Information message from OnGet method on Index.cshtml page");
logger.LogDebug("Debug message from OnGet method on Index.cshtml page");
logger.LogError("Error message from OnGet method on Index.cshtml page");
logger.LogWarning("Warning message from OnGet method on Index.cshtml page");
logger.LogTrace("Trace message from OnGet method on Index.cshtml page");
logger.LogCritical("Critical message from OnGet method on Index.cshtml page");
```

Similar code is included on the other pages. Each time a page is loaded, a log entry will be generated for every log level that has been enabled in the app service. So, because you enabled **Error**-level logging for the file system, you will only see **LogError** and **LogCritical** messages.

In this step, you'll open the log stream generated by your ASP.NET Web app by using Azure CLI commands from the Azure Cloud Shell.

1. In the Azure Cloud Shell, to open the log stream, replacing **\<_your-number_\>** with the random number that was generated to uniquely identify your app, run the following command.

   ```azurecli
   az webapp log tail  --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> --name contosofashions<your-number>
   ```

1. Wait until you see the **Welcome, you are now connected to log-streaming service** message.

1. Switch to the browser tab showing the **Contoso Fashions** website (https&#58;//contosofashions\<_your-number_\>.azurewebsites.net).

1. On the website **Home** (Contoso Fashions) page, in the menu bar, select **About**.

1. Return the website **Home** page by selecting **Contoso Fashions**, and in the menu bar, select **Contact**.

1. From the **Contact** page, return to the website **Home** page by selecting **Contoso Fashions**.

1. In the Azure Cloud Shell, you should now see log entries generated by each page in the ASP.NET app; if you do not see any log data, repeat the previous step, and wait a few minutes.

1. The log stream should display entries for each page, such as:

   ```azurecli
   Error message, in the Page_Load method for Contact.aspx
   ```

1. Click in the Azure Cloud Shell, and to stop the log stream session, press <kbd>Ctrl + C</kbd>.
