Bicep gives you a lot of flexibility to decide how you structure your code. You can organize your template in the way you like and apply your own style.

In this unit, you'll learn about the standard style for Bicep code, and the options you have to customize and use your own style. You'll also look at the Bicep template you saw earlier, and you'll start to think about how to improve it.



## How are your resources named?

There's an old saying in the tech community that naming conventions are one of the hardest problems to solve in the industry. Whatever language you use, you should define one convention and then use it consistently.

In Bicep, it's important that you give your resources meaningful names. Resources in Bicep have two names:

- The symbolic name is only used within the Bicep file and doesn't appear in Azure. This helps anyone who reads or modifies your template to understand the purpose of the resource and its configuration, so they can make an informed decision about whether to change it.
- The resource name is the name of the resource that's created in Azure. Many resources have constraints on their names, and may require unique names.

In the Bicep template above, your template resources have symbolic names with several different naming styles, such as:

- `webSite` and `webSiteConnectionStrings`, which use camel case.
- `roleassignment` and `sqlserver`, which are all in lowercase.
- `sqlserverName_databaseName` and `AppInsights_webSiteName`, which use underscores to separate parts of their names, and a mixture of capitalization styles.

A _naming convention_ is a set of rules for choosing how you represent identifiers in your code. There are many commonly used conventions. For example, imagine you're creating a parameter to collect the name of a SKU. You might use any of these conventions:

|Name  |Example for 'SKU Name' parameter  |
|---------|---------|
| Camel case     | `skuName`        |
| Pascal case     | `SkuName`        |
| Snake case     | `sku_name`        |
| Flat case     | `skuname`        |
| Train case     | `Sku-Name`        |

While choosing a naming convention is a matter of personal preference, it's important to agree on one standard within your team and use it consistently! Also make sure you use **descriptive names** that aren't ambiguous.
<!-- TODO should we just suggest camelCase? -->

When renaming identifiers, you need to make sure you rename them consistently in all parts of your template. Visual Studio Code offers a convenient way to **rename symbols**:

1. Select the identifier,
2. Press the F2 key,
3. Provide a new name,
4. Confirm the change by pressing Enter

:::image type="content" source="../media/4-rename-symbol.png" alt-text="Screenshot from VS Code showing how to rename a symbol." border="false":::

This action will rename not only the identifier but also all references to it!

### Resource names

In the previous chapter, we addressed the naming convention of identifiers but there's another important area: **naming convention of resources**. Almost every resource type has certain naming [rules and restrictions](/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/resource-name-rules).

Many organizations define their own naming convention that works for them. There's a specific [guidance](/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/ready/azure-best-practices/naming-and-tagging) in the **Cloud Adoption Framework** for Azure (CAF) that can help you define yours.

Following the naming convention can become a complex problem, especially since you can't rename your resource post deployment. A **well-written Bicep template should hide this complexity** from its users and handle it internally.

There are two common patterns that can be used (or even combined):

- using **parameter decorators** to limit and validate inputs from users
- using variables to construct resource names internally and using parameters to receive only parts of resource names. Typically a prefix or a suffix

In our template, there are several variables used to generate resource names, for example the `hostingPlanName` variable used for the `serverfarms` resource name:

```bicep
var hostingPlanName = 'hostingplan${uniqueString(resourceGroup().id)}'
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You should always check what rules apply to resources you have in your templates and ensure incorrect names won't break the deployment.

In this specific example, the `serverfarms` resource [requires](/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/resource-name-rules) its name must be:

- unique within the resource group,
- the length can be between 1-40 alphanumeric characters (with an option to use hyphens).

The variable above is a concatenation of `hostingplan` string and an autogenerated, [unique](/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/template-functions-string), 13 characters long string, that is derived from the Resource Group ID.

Since the only dynamic part is the unique string, we're certain that it will always match the rules. If we wanted to allow users to influence how the final name looks like, we could introduce a new parameter for name prefix. We would use the `@maxLenght()` decorator to ensure the prefix won't exceed 27 characters and add the `@description()` decorator to provide additional information.

```bicep
@maxLength(27)
@description('Naming prefix for web farm resource. Only alphanumeric characters and hyphen are allowed. Max size is 27 characters.')
param hostingPlanNamePrefix string = 'hostingplan'

var hostingPlanName = '${hostingPlanNamePrefix}${uniqueString(resourceGroup().id)}'
```

> [!NOTE]
> Currently there isn't a possibility to use regular expressions to validate, if a parameter value only contains allowed characters. That is why it's sometimes better to fully control resource naming within the template.

TODO

---

### How usable are the parameters?

Your template has several parameters. Parameters help to make Bicep files reusable and flexible. However, it's important that the purpose of each parameter is clear. There are some parameters here that aren't clear:

- `skuName` and `skuCapacity`: What sort of SKU do they refer to? What resources are affected by choosing different values for these parameters?
- `roleDefinitionId`: What role definition are you assigning and why?

Default values are an important way to make your template usable by others. It's important to use default values where they make sense. In your template, the `managedIdentityName` parameter doesn't have a default value - could you change that, or better yet, create the name automatically? And look at the `roleDefinitionId` parameter. Why is there a default value of `b24988ac-6180-42a0-ab88-20f7382dd24c`? What does that big long identifier mean? How would someone else know whether to use the default value or override it? What could you do to help this?

Bicep can also help to validate the input that the user provides when they deploy the template. The template uses a few _parameter decorators_ to help Bicep and the user understand what values are permitted for each parameter, but there's plenty of room for improvement!

### Resource dependencies

In any complex Bicep template, you need to have _dependencies_ between your resources. When Bicep understands the dependencies between your resources, it deploys them in the correct order.

Bicep allows you to explicitly specify a dependency by using the `dependsOn` property. However, in most cases, it's possible to let Bicep automatically detect dependencies. When you use the symbolic name of one resource within a property of another, Bicep detects the relationship. It's better to let Bicep manage these itself whenever you can. That way, when you change your template, Bicep will make sure the dependencies are always correct, and you won't add unnecessary code that makes your template more cumbersome and harder to read.

Here's one of your resources, which includes a `dependsOn` property - does it really need it?

::: code language="bicep" source="code/2-template.bicep" range="56-65" highlight="7-9" :::

### Child resources

Azure Resource Manager and Bicep have the concept of child resources, which only make sense to deploy within the context of their parent. For example, a SQL database is a child of a SQL server.

There are several ways to define child resources, but in most cases, it's a good idea to use the `parent` property. This helps Bicep to understand the relationship, and it makes it clear to anyone else who reads the template too.

Notice how this child resource was declared in your template:

::: code language="bicep" source="code/2-template.bicep" range="44-54" highlight="2" :::

How could you modify how this resource is declared?

### Property values

You need to specify the values for resource properties in your Bicep files. It's a good idea to avoid hard-coding values directly, unless you know they won't change. This makes your Bicep template more dynamic and reusable. When you do hard-code values, it's good to make sure the values are understandable to others. For example, take a look at the properties of the SQL database resource:

::: code language="bicep" source="code/2-template.bicep" range="44-54" highlight="5, 8-9" :::

Does the SKU `name` property really make sense to hard-code? And what are those weird-looking values for the `collation` and `maxSizeBytes` properties?

For some resource properties, you need to create complex expressions, and use functions and string interpolation to construct values automatically. Your Bicep code is usually clearer when you declare variables and reference them in the resource code blocks. Can you spot any room for improvement in the following code block from the template?

::: code language="bicep" source="code/2-template.bicep" range="94-102" highlight="98" :::


---


## Choose your authoring style

Your Bicep templates can contain many **elements**:

- parameters (with or without default values)
- variables
- resources (including syntaxes for conditional and iterative deployments)
- modules (also with conditional and iterative deployments, or deployments to different scopes)
- outputs (with an option of iterative syntax)
- target scope for the entire template

As a declarative language that doesn't come with a strict schema, **these elements can be written in any order**. During the deployment, when your Bicep file is compiled to a Resource Manager template, all the elements will be placed according to the JSON schema.

There are **two authoring styles** used in the community. You and your team should agree on one and use it consistently:

### All element types grouped together

- our original template follows this style
- easy to adopt if you have a prior experience with Resource Manager templates
- for bigger templates it can be challenging to navigate and jump between the elements

  > [!TIP]
  > To overcome this challenge you can use built-in features in VS Code like "Go to Definition", "Find All References", or "Peak Definition".

### All elements belonging to one resource grouped together

- exceptions are common elements like the `location` parameter in our template. Those common elements should be placed together, ideally at the top of the Bicep file.
- it can simplify navigation

In our project, we'll use the first style. *Practically it means we won't need to make many structural changes.*

TODO SECTION 2

## Choose free-form vs. known configurations

One of the goals is to design and author a reusable and flexible infrastructure code. You don't want to have single-purpose templates with hardcoded configuration. On the other hand, exposing all resource properties as parameters can be problematic too.

There are two common approaches you can choose from:

### Free-form configuration

- provides maximum flexibility and many variations
- all resource properties are made available as parameters, allowing the user to provide all input values
- makes it difficult to exclude incorrect combinations and apply input validations

  > [!TIP]
  > Having potentially dozens of parameters in a template can be overwhelming. This could be simplified by grouping related parameters together in form of a parameter object. This will however reduce your ability to validate provided inputs.

### Known configuration

- also known as *T-shirt sizing*
- allows you to select from a set of defined configurations based on size, criticality, or environment type
- offers lower flexibility but delivers tested and validated configurations
- it also abstracts more complexity from end users, for example a domain-specific knowledge
- it's easier to support, test, and troubleshoot

If we wanted to use the second approach for our template, instead of exposing all the capacity details for the `serverFarm` resource, we could introduce two "sizes":

| Environment  | Specification  |
|---------|---------|
|Production     | P2V3 SKU and three worker nodes        |
|Test     | S2 SKU and one worker node        |

To implement this change, we would:

1. Create a new `environment` parameter with two allowed values,
2. Add a `webFarmSizing` variable that would hold both configuration options, and
3. Update the `sku` property in the `hostingPlan` resource.

The following code snippet shows how such implementation could look like:

```bicep
@description('Select what environment you want to provision. Allowed values are Production and Test')
@allowed([
  'Production'
  'Test'
])
param environment string = 'Test'

var webFarmSizing = {
  Production: {
    name: 'P2V3'
    capacity: 3
  }
  Test: {
    name: 'S2'
    capacity: 1
  }
}

...

resource hostingPlan 'Microsoft.Web/serverfarms@2020-06-01' = {
  name: hostingPlanName
  location: location
  sku: webFarmSizing[environment]
}
```

TODO SECTION 1 OR 3

## Make your Bicep code dynamic

Whatever approach you prefer, you still want to **avoid hardcoding values directly** in resources declaration, which would make parts of your code less reusable. *You could still consider it for values that don't change frequently.*

In our template, most of the properties are defined dynamically with the following exception:

::: code language="bicep" source="code/2-template.bicep" range="44-49" :::

Let's quickly fix it by introducing a new parameter and referencing its value:

```bicep
param sqlSkuName string = 'Basic'

resource sqlserverName_databaseName 'Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases@2020-08-01-preview' = {
  name: '${sqlserver.name}/${databaseName}'
  location: location
  sku: {
    name: sqlSkuName
  }
```

For many properties you'll need to create **complex expressions**, concatenate several values, and use built-in functions. It's a good practice to create these expressions as variables and reference them in other parts of your code like resources and modules.

A good example from our template is the value of `DefaultConnection` property:

::: code language="bicep" source="code/2-template.bicep" range="91-99" :::

Let's look how the code would look like after we refactor it to follow the recommendation:

```bicep
var dbConnectionString = 'Data Source=tcp:${sqlserver.properties.fullyQualifiedDomainName},1433;Initial Catalog=${databaseName};User Id=${sqlAdministratorLogin}@${sqlserver.properties.fullyQualifiedDomainName};Password=${sqlAdministratorLoginPassword};'

resource webSiteConnectionStrings 'Microsoft.Web/sites/config@2020-06-01' = {
  name: '${webSite.name}/connectionstrings'
  properties: {
    DefaultConnection: {
      value: dbConnectionString
      type: 'SQLAzure'
    }
  }
}
```

