HDInsight on AKS offers an integration with following Azure services

-	Azure Monitor.
-	Azure Managed Prometheus along with Azure managed Grafana dashboards for monitoring.

**Azure Monitor** collects metrics and logs from multiple resources into an Azure Monitor Log Analytics workspace, which presents the data as structured, query able tables that can be used to configure custom alerts. Azure Monitor logs provide excellent overall experience for monitoring workloads and interacting with logs, especially if you have multiple clusters.

**Azure Managed Prometheus** is a service that monitors your cloud environment. The monitoring is to maintain their availability, performance, and cluster metrics. It collects data generated by resources in your Azure instances and from other monitoring tools. The data is used to provide analysis across multiple sources.

**Azure Managed Grafana** is a data visualization platform built on top of the Grafana software by Grafana Labs. It's built as a fully managed Azure service operated and supported by Microsoft. Grafana helps you bring together metrics, logs, and traces into a single user interface. With its extensive support for data sources and graphing capabilities, you can view and analyze your application and infrastructure telemetry data in real-time.

HDInsight on AKS also offers an out-of-box monitoring feature that provides premade dashboards based on cluster and service health information on top of the Azure monitor integration for more flexibility and a better visualization experience.


For more details on integration, you can refer to the following documentation:

- [How to enable log analytics](/azure/hdinsight-aks/how-to-azure-monitor-integration)
- [Using Azure managed Prometheus & Grafana](/azure/hdinsight-aks/monitor-with-prometheus-grafana)
