“The cloud” is a vast network of remote servers around the globe that are linked together, operate as a single ecosystem, and are designed to store and manage data, run applications, or deliver content or a service such as streaming videos, web mail, office productivity software, or social media. **Cloud computing** is when you access computing services—like servers, storage, networking, software—over the internet (“the cloud”) from a provider like Azure. For example, instead of storing personal documents and photos on your personal computer’s hard drive, most people now store them online: that’s cloud computing. Cloud computing platforms, like Azure, tend to be less expensive and more secure, reliable, and flexible than on-premises servers. With the cloud, equipment downtime due to maintenance, theft, or damage is almost non-existent. You can scale your compute and storage resources—up or down—almost instantly when your needs change on Azure. Also, you typically pay only for the services you use, which provides a level of convenience and cost-control that’s almost impossible to achieve with on-site infrastructure. We currently live in a “cloud era,” in which organizations are leveraging the computing power of the cloud to change the way they consume technology and run their business today and tomorrow.

Azure is being built as the world’s computer, meaning it is the computing fabric that connects applications to the **intelligent edge** of connected systems and devices that gather and analyze data. Azure leverages artificial intelligence (AI) technology to provide intelligent computing power to these applications, systems, and connected devices across the world. This connection between the Azure **intelligent cloud** and the intelligent edge gives organizations the ability to create a new class of connected applications and experiences that drive breakthrough business outcomes. By leveraging the Cloud Adoption Framework and building the right comprehensive and holistic adoption strategy around business, people, and technology, you can ensure that your organization will fully harness the power of Azure to meet your digital transformation goals.

In this module, you will:

- Learn how to leverage the Cloud Adoption Framework to identify where your organization is in the digital transformation journey.

- Identify triggers and opportunities for cloud adoption.

- Recognize the components needed to develop a digital transformation strategy around your business, people, and technology.

