You should create variable names that describe the data stored in them. For example, a variable that stores a user account could be `$user`, and a variable that stores the name of a log file could be `$logFileName`.

In most cases, you'll notice variables are used with a dollar sign (`$`) symbol. The `$` symbol is not part of the variable name but it distinguishes variables from other syntax elements of Windows PowerShell. For example, `$user` designates a variable named **user**, and the `$` symbol helps Windows PowerShell to identify that it's a variable.

You should typically limit variable names to alphanumeric characters (letters and numbers). While you can include some special characters and spaces, it becomes more confusing to use. For example, to include a space in a variable name, you need to enclose the name in braces (`{ }`). An example would be `${log File}`, where there's a space between the words log and file.

Variable names aren't case sensitive. The variables `$USER` and `$user` are interchangeable. For improved legibility, the common convention is to use lowercase characters and capitalize the first letter of each word in a variable name. Capitalizing the first word is optional depending on the situation and your preferences. For example, `$logFile` and `$LogFile` are both commonly used. However, when variables are used for parameters in a script, the first word should be capitalized for consistency with the parameters used by cmdlets. Using a capital letter acts as a separator between the words and makes the variable name more legible without using special characters such as spaces, hyphens, or underscores.

