learn-pr/wwl-sci/describe-compliance-management-capabilities-microsoft/includes/2-describe-service-trust-portal.md, before:


The Microsoft Service Trust Portal provides a variety of content, tools, and other resources about how Microsoft cloud services protect your data, and how you can manage cloud data security and compliance for your organization.

The Service Trust Portal (STP) is Microsoft's public site for publishing audit reports and other compliance-related information associated with Microsoft’s cloud services. STP users can download audit reports produced by external auditors and gain insight from Microsoft-authored whitepapers that provide details on how Microsoft cloud services protect your data, and how you can manage cloud data security and compliance for your organization.

### Accessing the Service Trust Portal
To access some of the resources on the Service Trust Portal, you must log in as an authenticated user with your Microsoft cloud services account (Azure Active Directory organization account) and review and accept the Microsoft non-disclosure agreement for Compliance Materials.

### Service Trust Portal Content Categories
The Service Trust Portal landing page includes content that is organized into the following categories:

- Certifications, Regulations, and Standards
- Reports, Whitepapers, and Artifacts
- Industry and Regional Resources
- Resources for your Organization

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-home-page-v2-inline.png" lightbox="../media/stp-home-page-v2-expanded.png" alt-text="Screen shot of the Service Trust Portal home page.":::

As users navigate to content in the different categories, selecting the Service Trust Portal link at the top of the page provides a quick way to get back to the home page.

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-top-navigation.png" alt-text="Screen shot of the Service Trust Portal link at the top of the home page.":::

#### Certifications, Regulations and Standards

The certification, regulations, and standards section of the STP provides a wealth of security implementation and design information with the goal of making it easier for you to meet regulatory compliance objectives by understanding how Microsoft Cloud services keep your data secure.  

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-certifications-standards.png" alt-text="Screen shot of the tiles available in the certifications, regulations, and standards section of the Service Trust Portal home page.":::

Selecting a tile will provide a list of available documents, including a description and when it was last updated. The screen shot that follows shows some of the documents available by selecting the ISO/IEC tile.

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-iso-iec.png" alt-text="Screen shot of the list of documents available by selecting the ISO/IEC tile.":::

#### Reports, Whitepapers, and Artifacts

This section includes general documents relating to the following categories:

- BCP and DR - Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery
- Pen Test and Security Assessments - Attestation of Penetration tests and security assessments conducted by third parties
- Privacy and Data Protection - Privacy and Data Protection Resources
- FAQ and Whitepapers - Whitepapers and answers to frequently asked questions

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-reports.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the tiles available in the reports, whitepapers, and artifacts section of the Service Trust Portal home page.":::

#### Industry and Regional Resources

This section includes documents that apply to the following industries and regions:

- Financial Services - Resources elaborating regulatory compliance guidance for FSI (by country/region)
- Healthcare and Life Sciences - Capabilities offered by Microsoft for Healthcare Industry
- Media and Entertainment - Media and Entertainment Industry Resources
- United States Government - Resources exclusively for US Government customers
- Regional Resources - Documents describing compliance of Microsoft's online services with various regional policies and regulations

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-industry-regions.png" alt-text="Screen shot of the tiles available in the reports, whitepapers, and artifacts section of the Service Trust Portal home page.":::

#### Resources for your Organization
This section lists documents applying to your organization (restricted by tenant) based on your organization’s subscription and permissions.

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-organization-resources.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing tiles available in the resources for your organization section of the Service Trust Portal home page.":::

### My Library
Use the My Library feature to add documents and resources on the Service Trust Portal to your My Library page. This lets you access documents that are relevant to you in a single place. To add a document to your My Library, select the ellipsis (...) menu to the right of a document and then select Save to library.

Additionally, the notifications feature lets you configure your My Library so that an email message is sent to you whenever Microsoft updates a document that you've added to your My Library. To set up notifications, go to your My Library and select Notification Settings. You can choose the frequency of notifications and specify an email address in your organization to send notifications to. Email notifications include links to the documents that have been updated and a brief description of the update.

If a document is part of a series, you'll be subscribed to the series, and will receive notifications when there's an update to that series.

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-my-library.png" alt-text="Screen shot of the documents listed in the My Library page.":::

### Interactive Guide
In this interactive guide, you'll explore a few of the menu options available on the Service Trust Portal. Select the image that follows to get started then follow the prompts on the screen.

> [!NOTE]
> The user interface (UI) in Microsoft 365 is continually evolving so the UI shown in the interactive guide may not reflect the most recent updates.

[![Interactive guide](../media/stp-interactive-guide-place-holder.png)](https://edxinteractivepage.blob.core.windows.net/edxpages/sc-900/c002-lp04m01-explore1the-service-trust-portal-sept2022/index.html?azure-portal=true)

Commit message:

Correcting screenshot to one word

learn-pr/wwl-sci/describe-compliance-management-capabilities-microsoft/includes/2-describe-service-trust-portal.md, after:


The Microsoft Service Trust Portal provides a variety of content, tools, and other resources about how Microsoft cloud services protect your data, and how you can manage cloud data security and compliance for your organization.

The Service Trust Portal (STP) is Microsoft's public site for publishing audit reports and other compliance-related information associated with Microsoft’s cloud services. STP users can download audit reports produced by external auditors and gain insight from Microsoft-authored whitepapers that provide details on how Microsoft cloud services protect your data, and how you can manage cloud data security and compliance for your organization.

### Accessing the Service Trust Portal
To access some of the resources on the Service Trust Portal, you must log in as an authenticated user with your Microsoft cloud services account (Azure Active Directory organization account) and review and accept the Microsoft non-disclosure agreement for Compliance Materials.

### Service Trust Portal Content Categories
The Service Trust Portal landing page includes content that is organized into the following categories:

- Certifications, Regulations, and Standards
- Reports, Whitepapers, and Artifacts
- Industry and Regional Resources
- Resources for your Organization

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-home-page-v2-inline.png" lightbox="../media/stp-home-page-v2-expanded.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Service Trust Portal home page.":::

As users navigate to content in the different categories, selecting the Service Trust Portal link at the top of the page provides a quick way to get back to the home page.

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-top-navigation.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Service Trust Portal link at the top of the home page.":::

#### Certifications, Regulations and Standards

The certification, regulations, and standards section of the STP provides a wealth of security implementation and design information with the goal of making it easier for you to meet regulatory compliance objectives by understanding how Microsoft Cloud services keep your data secure.  

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-certifications-standards.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the tiles available in the certifications, regulations, and standards section of the Service Trust Portal home page.":::

Selecting a tile will provide a list of available documents, including a description and when it was last updated. The screenshot that follows shows some of the documents available by selecting the ISO/IEC tile.

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-iso-iec.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the list of documents available by selecting the ISO/IEC tile.":::

#### Reports, Whitepapers, and Artifacts

This section includes general documents relating to the following categories:

- BCP and DR - Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery
- Pen Test and Security Assessments - Attestation of Penetration tests and security assessments conducted by third parties
- Privacy and Data Protection - Privacy and Data Protection Resources
- FAQ and Whitepapers - Whitepapers and answers to frequently asked questions

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-reports.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows the tiles available in the reports, whitepapers, and artifacts section of the Service Trust Portal home page.":::

#### Industry and Regional Resources

This section includes documents that apply to the following industries and regions:

- Financial Services - Resources elaborating regulatory compliance guidance for FSI (by country/region)
- Healthcare and Life Sciences - Capabilities offered by Microsoft for Healthcare Industry
- Media and Entertainment - Media and Entertainment Industry Resources
- United States Government - Resources exclusively for US Government customers
- Regional Resources - Documents describing compliance of Microsoft's online services with various regional policies and regulations

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-industry-regions.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the tiles available in the reports, whitepapers, and artifacts section of the Service Trust Portal home page.":::

#### Resources for your Organization
This section lists documents applying to your organization (restricted by tenant) based on your organization’s subscription and permissions.

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-organization-resources.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing tiles available in the resources for your organization section of the Service Trust Portal home page.":::

### My Library
Use the My Library feature to add documents and resources on the Service Trust Portal to your My Library page. This lets you access documents that are relevant to you in a single place. To add a document to your My Library, select the ellipsis (...) menu to the right of a document and then select Save to library.

Additionally, the notifications feature lets you configure your My Library so that an email message is sent to you whenever Microsoft updates a document that you've added to your My Library. To set up notifications, go to your My Library and select Notification Settings. You can choose the frequency of notifications and specify an email address in your organization to send notifications to. Email notifications include links to the documents that have been updated and a brief description of the update.

If a document is part of a series, you'll be subscribed to the series, and will receive notifications when there's an update to that series.

:::image type="content" source="../media/stp-my-library.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the documents listed in the My Library page.":::

### Interactive Guide
In this interactive guide, you'll explore a few of the menu options available on the Service Trust Portal. Select the image that follows to get started then follow the prompts on the screen.

> [!NOTE]
> The user interface (UI) in Microsoft 365 is continually evolving so the UI shown in the interactive guide may not reflect the most recent updates.

[![Interactive guide](../media/stp-interactive-guide-place-holder.png)](https://edxinteractivepage.blob.core.windows.net/edxpages/sc-900/c002-lp04m01-explore1the-service-trust-portal-sept2022/index.html?azure-portal=true)
