learn-pr/wwl-azure/deploy-use-azure-container-registry/includes/3-log-container-registry.md, before:


Before pushing and pulling container images, you must sign-in to the registry instance. [Sign into the Azure CLI](/cli/azure/get-started-with-azure-cli) on your local machine, then run the [az sign-in](/cli/azure/acr#az_acr_login) command. Specify only the registry resource name when logging in with the Azure CLI.

> [!NOTE]
> Don't use the fully qualified sign-in server name.

Sign into the Azure CLI on your local machine, then run the `az sign-in` command.

```azurecli
az login
```

The output should resemble the image seen here.

:::image type="content" source="../media/login-azure-command-line-ba5fb6b3.png" alt-text="Displays a screenshot of the command-line output for connecting to Azure.":::


Sign-in to the registry using the resource name.

```azurecli
az acr login --name <registry-name>
```

Example:

```azurecli
az acr login --name newregistryapl.azurecr.io
```

The command returns **sign in Succeeded** once completed. The output should resemble the image seen here.

:::image type="content" source="../media/registry-login-success-command-line-b645c8b8.png" alt-text="Displays a screenshot of the connection to Azure being a success.":::

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[69336ba7-8f32-4a95-a540-fa1c20807a10] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-azure/deploy-use-azure-container-registry/includes/3-log-container-registry.md, after:

Use this Try-This exercise to gain some hands-on experience with Azure Kubernetes Service.

Before pushing and pulling container images, you must sign-in to the registry instance. [Sign into the Azure CLI](/cli/azure/get-started-with-azure-cli) on your local machine, then run the [az sign-in](/cli/azure/acr#az_acr_login) command. Specify only the registry resource name when logging in with the Azure CLI.

> [!NOTE]
> Don't use the fully qualified sign-in server name.

> [!NOTE]
> To complete this procedure, you need an [Azure subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).

Sign into the Azure CLI on your local machine, then run the `az sign-in` command.

```azurecli
az login
```

The output should resemble the image seen here.

:::image type="content" source="../media/login-azure-command-line-ba5fb6b3.png" alt-text="Displays a screenshot of the command-line output for connecting to Azure.":::


Sign-in to the registry using the resource name.

```azurecli
az acr login --name <registry-name>
```

Example:

```azurecli
az acr login --name newregistryapl.azurecr.io
```

The command returns **sign in Succeeded** once completed. The output should resemble the image seen here.

:::image type="content" source="../media/registry-login-success-command-line-b645c8b8.png" alt-text="Displays a screenshot of the connection to Azure being a success.":::
