Implementing business processes is challenging because you need to make diverse services work together. Think about everything your company uses to store and process data: Salesforce, Office 365, Oracle, Twitter, YouTube, Dropbox, Google services, Azure Cognitive Services, and so on. How do you integrate all these products? Azure Logic Apps gives you pre-built components to connect to hundreds of services like these. You put the pieces together in any combination you need and let Logic Apps run your process automatically in the cloud.

For example, suppose you work at an athletic shoe company that is launching a new product. You need to sell shoes on your website, manage your cloud-hosted advertising videos, and monitor social media to see how the community is responding to the launch. The following illustration shows these processes. Notice how the tasks includes both customer-facing processes like direct sales and administrative tasks like auto-archiving old videos.

![An illustration showing three business processes used by a fictional shoe-manufacturing company. The first process shows a typical flow for online sales including receiving a customer order, charging their credit card, and shipping the product. The second process shows the company monitoring and analyzing social-media postings about their products. The third process shows management of video assets by moving them to lower-cost storage as they get older.](../media-drafts/1-business-processes.png)

In this module, you'll see how Logic Apps automate business processes like these and learn a bit about how they work behind the scenes. The goal is to help you decide whether Logic Apps will work for your own business tasks.