learn-pr/azure/gather-metrics-blob-storage/includes/9-summary.md, before:

In this module, you viewed Azure Blob Storage metric information in the Azure portal. You then created custom dashboards in the Azure portal, and retrieved resource logs.

## More information

Transaction metrics are sent to Azure Monitor every minute, and are available both for the account and the service. For more information, see [Monitoring Azure Blob Storage](/azure/storage/common/storage-metrics-in-azure-monitor).

You can also specify custom metrics. For more information, see [Custom metrics in Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/metrics-custom-overview).

Shared dashboards are an Azure resource, which means you can share them by using role-based access control (RBAC). RBAC enables you to apply roles to Azure user accounts or groups, which can then access a resource or resource group. You can apply different roles to different users or groups, so that some users can only view a resource but other users can manage a resource. For more information, see the following articles:

- [Create and share dashboards in the Azure portal](/azure/azure-portal/azure-portal-dashboards)

- [Create and share dashboards of Log Analytics data](/azure/azure-monitor/learn/tutorial-logs-dashboards)

- [Share Azure dashboards by using role-based access control](/azure/azure-portal/azure-portal-dashboard-share-access)

[!include[](../../../includes/azure-sandbox-cleanup.md)]

Commit message:

Updating summary and a few other things

learn-pr/azure/gather-metrics-blob-storage/includes/9-summary.md, after:

In this module, you viewed Azure Blob Storage metric information in the Azure portal. You then created custom dashboards in the Azure portal. For a more comprehensive learn module that helps you use both metrics as storage logs to troubleshoot issues, see [monitor-diagnose-and-troubleshoot-azure-storage](monitor-diagnose-and-troubleshoot-azure-storage/index.yml).

## Learn more

- [Monitoring Azure Blob Storage](/azure/storage/blobs/monitor-blob-storage)
- [Monitoring Azure Files](/azure/storage/files/storage-files-monitoring)
- [Monitoring Azure Queue Storage](/azure/storage/queues/monitor-queue-storage)
- [Monitoring Azure Table storage](/azure/storage/tables/monitor-table-storage)
- [Monitoring your storage service with Azure Monitor Storage insights](/azure/storage/common/storage-insights-overview)
- [Best practices for monitoring Azure Blob Storage](/azure/storage/blobs/blob-storage-monitoring-scenarios)
- [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started)
- [Overview of Log Analytics in Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/log-analytics-overview)
- [Azure Monitor Metrics overview](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/data-platform-metrics)

[!include[](../../../includes/azure-sandbox-cleanup.md)]
