<!-- Original file: C:\Users\Mark\Desktop\CMU-source\v_5_3\content\_u03_virtualizing_resources_for_cloud\_u03_m01_introduction_motivation\x-oli-workbook_page\_u03_m01_0_module_intro.xml -->

In the last unit, we delved into depth about data centers, the components as well as design decisions for data centers. To build a cloud requires more than just building a data center. We need some mechanism to manage and share data center resources over multiple clients (or tenants). This sharing of resources must be done in a safe, efficient and isolated manner. This is where resource sharing technologies come in. 

In this unit, we will go into some depth about various resource sharing techniques, but we will focus on the big one: Virtualization. Recall in Unit 1, you learned about the evolution of cloud computing and surprising fact that the ideas of utility computing date actually back to the 1960s. You learned also the evolution and combination of multiple technologies led to the emergence of the cloud today. Virtualization is arguably one of the most important of those technologies, acting like a kind of glue that holds everything together. 

You will find this unit to be more systems focused than the previous units, but a thorough understanding of virtualization will help those who intend on taking systems-focused roles in the industry and will help those with research inclinations in this space. 

In this module of this unit, we will look at virtualization in general and understand some of the key motivations behind virtual machines, the limitations of general purpose operating systems that led to the emergence of virtualization, and a whirlwind tour of the interfaces and abstractions in a modern computer system. We will then look at the bigger picture of resource sharing and what it means to share a resource in time and space. 

The material presented in this Unit should contain sufficient detail for the course, but interested readers can refer to this popular book on virtual machines to be a fairly comprehensive reference for all virtualization-related concepts. 