Tailwind Traders wants to implement a touchless point-of-sale solution for self-checkout. The self-checkout terminals should be, above all else, secure. Each terminal must be impervious to malicious code that could create fraudulent transactions. The terminals shouldn't force the company to take the systems offline during a heavy shopping period, or send transactional data to a spying organization. The terminals should also report back vital information on the company's health and allow secure updates to its software remotely.

During a request for proposal process, Tailwind Traders reviewed many possible solutions and has decided that it needs features that vendors have yet to implement. Instead of using an existing solution, the company decides to work with a leading engineering firm that specializes in IoT solutions. This approach allows the company to build a uniquely secure terminal that gives it a retail platform to build on going forward.

Although most of the company's focus is on the terminal itself, Tailwind Traders realizes that it wants a solution that can help it make sense of all the data generated by these terminals across all of its retail stores. And it wants an easy way to push software updates to its terminals.

## Which service should you choose?

Again, apply the decision criteria as you've been doing.

First, is it critical to ensure that the device or, in this case, each point-of-sale terminal, isn't compromised? Absolutely. Device security is the primary requirement.

Next, does Tailwind Traders need a dashboard for reporting and management? Yes, the company requires a reporting and management dashboard.

So, given the responses to the decision criteria, the IoT engineering firm has decided to build a platform on top of both Azure IoT Central and Azure Sphere. Even though no specific starter template is available in Azure IoT Central for this scenario, one can easily be adapted to accommodate the kinds of reports the company wants to see and the management operations it wants to perform.

## Why not choose IoT Hub?

By using IoT Central, Tailwind Traders would actually be using Azure IoT Hub behind the scenes as well.
