In the preceding module, you built an example that allows users to input two values. Your program would add the values together after converting them by using the `int()` function.

```python
first_value = int(input('First Number: '))
second_value = int(input('Second number: '))
sum = first_value + second_value
print("Sum: " + str(sum))
```

As we pointed out in this module's introduction, it's possible for users to enter a value that can't be converted to a numeric data type.  Consider what happens when someone enters the value *Bob* instead of a numeric value.

```output
First Number: 6
Second Number: Bob
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "c:/python/numeric-operations-datatypes/exercise1.py", line 2, in <module>
    second_number = int(input())
ValueError: invalid literal for int() with base 10: 'Bob'
```

### What went wrong?

This code accounts for only the best case scenario: that users would enter a value within a certain range of values, namely, a numeric value. Developers learn to anticipate that input from users or other systems (including files generated by other programs) might be out of the acceptable range of values.  Sometimes, we call this approach "treating input as evil," which is the programming equivalent of "defensive driving."  

Armed with a healthy skepticism, you need to perform data-type and value checks on the data before you perform actual operations on or with the data.

### What happens next?

In this exercise, you write code that takes the first step toward determining the right course of action. If the value can't be converted into a number, you need to stop the program, tell users that the value they entered is invalid, and ask them to try again.  

Before you can do this, you need to learn more about data types, which are built-in functions that allow you to determine the data type of a value. You need to know how to work with Boolean expressions as a precursor to testing values. And you need to learn how to branch your code to handle scenarios where your data can't be used as is.

### How do you solve the problem?

At the beginning of this unit, we described the fundamental problem as an issue of trust.  You trusted that users would input a value that could be used as a number.

To remedy this, you need to perform a few additional steps.  First, check the user input to see whether it can be converted into an `int`.  If it can be converted, go ahead and convert it.  However, if it can't be converted, you need to explain the problem.

How can you determine whether the user input is numeric, even though the `input()` function always returns a string value?  And how can you determine the data type of a value?

## Use the `isnumeric()` function

At the outset, you wanted a way to determine whether the entered value could be converted into a numeric value so that you can perform mathematical operations on it.  The `isnumeric()` function returns a Boolean value if the string value can be converted into a numeric value.

### Step 1 - Create a new Python code file

Use the techniques you learned in previous modules to add a new code file in the current folder that's dedicated to this module.  For example, you might create a file named *exercise2.py*.

### Step 2 - Add code that uses the `isnumeric()` function to determine whether a string can be converted into a number

In the new code file, add the following code:

```python
numeric_value = '7'
print(numeric_value.isnumeric())

string_value = 'Bob'
print(string_value.isnumeric())
```

Notice that the `isnumeric()` function works unlike the other functions you've used so far.  You access the function by using the *member accessor operator* dot character (**.**).  This simply means that the function is not general purpose, and it can be used only on a string data type.  There's a bit more to it than that, and you'll learn more about class members in an upcoming module.

Functions that supply additional functionality and are accessible to any value of a specified data type are called *helper functions* because they're built-in helpers that help you use or understand more about the contents of the string value itself.

If you run this code, you'll see the following output:

```output
True
False
```

Both `numeric_value` and `string_value` point to string values, but the `isnumeric()` function tells you that one of them, `numeric_value`, could be converted and used as an `int` or `float` data type.  You'll use `numeric_value` in a moment to build a more robust program that accepts user input for mathematical processing.

### Other is__() functions

The Python `str` data type supports many similar helper functions.  As you're getting started, some of the most useful ones include:

| Function | Purpose |
| --- | --- |
|`isalnum()`|Ensures that the string has no special characters, such as %, $, #, @, or !. |
|`isalpha()`|Ensures that the string contains only letters of the alphabet.|
|`isdecimal()`|Ensures that the string contains only decimal values (numbers).|
|`istitle()`|Ensures that the string follows the rules of capitalization (as in a sentence).|
|`isupper()`|Ensures that the string contains only uppercase letters.|
|`islower()`|Ensures that the string contains only lowercase letters.|

You'll work with some of these functions in another module that's devoted to working with strings.

## Combine `isnumeric()` with an `if` statement

In the preceding module, you used the `if ... elif ... else` statement to branch code execution.  Now, apply what you've already learned about user input, data types, and the `isnumeric()` helper function to check whether the input can be converted before the program attempts the conversion.

The `if` statement allows you to perform a *gate* on the input.  A gate is a programming term that refers to a check on data to ensure that it's in the proper format before the program continues.

### Step 3 - Comment out code from the previous steps, and then rewrite it to gate the keyboard input by using an `if` statement and the `isnumeric()` function

Update your code to match the following code listing:

```python
first_value = input('First Number: ')

if first_value.isnumeric() == False:
    print('Value is not a number.')
    exit()

second_value = input('Second Number: ')

if second_value.isnumeric() == False:
    print('Value is not a number.')
    exit()

first_value = int(first_value)
second_value = int(second_value)

sum = first_value + second_value
print('Sum: ' + str(sum))
```
Here you use `isnumeric()`, looking for the Boolean expression to return a *False*.  If it returns a *True* (that is, if `isnumeric()` is *False*), you print a message and `exit()`.  Otherwise, you continue on with the program.

The `exit()` method terminates the program immediately.  This method is useful when you want to end the program without processing any additional lines of code.  In this case, you want to end the program when you know that the conversion of the user input to `int` will be unsuccessful.  When you learn about looping structures in Python, you can repeatedly prompt users for a different value until they enter a numeric value.

If you run the code and users provide a numeric answer to the `input()`, it should return a valid sum of the numbers.

```output
First Number: 4
Second Number: 5
Sum: 9
```
If you run the code and users provide a non-numeric answer to the prompts, you'll get a predictable response as the program ends.

```output
First Number: 5
Second Number: bob
Value is not a number.
```
There's no doubt that the *gated* approach requires more lines of code.  However, your program is more resilient and less likely to raise an error in real world usage.  You could reduce the lines of code slightly by combining both of your calls to `isnumeric()` on the same line of code by using the `or` operator.

### Step 4 - Update the code example to use the logical `or` operator

Update the code example to use the logical `or` operator.  Make sure that your code matches the following code listing:

```python
first_value = input('First Number: ')
second_value = input('Second Number: ')

if first_value.isnumeric() == False or second_value.isnumeric() == False:
    print('Please enter numbers only.')
    exit()

first_value = int(first_value)
second_value = int(second_value)

sum = first_value + second_value
print('Sum: ' + str(sum))
```
Execute the application a few times, and try various combinations to test your changes.

## Recap

- The `isnumeric()` allows you to check to see whether a value can be converted to an `int` or `float`.
- The `isnumeric()` function is an example of a *helper function* because it supports the use of a data type such as `str`.  You access these types of functions by using the *member accessor operator* dot character (**.**).
- Use the `exit()` function to end the execution of your program immediately.
- Sometimes, you can use the logical `or` operator to reduce the amount of code you have to write to implement your gated checks.
- A helper function operates on a value of a specified type, providing helpful utilities that allow you to perform common operations on values that belong to that data type.
- Every data type supports some helper functions.  You briefly looked at a few `str` helper functions that help you understand the contents of your string values.
