
As previously discussed, a data engineer is focused and has expertise in integrating, transforming, and consolidated data from various structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data systems into structures that are consumable by downstream analysts or systems which use the data to build analytics solutions or business decision systems for lines of business.

## Structured Data
Structured data primarily comes from source systems that are table based, such as a database server which can be through a direct connection or direct query or from a flat file such as a comma separated (csv) file. The primary elements of a structured file is that the rows and columns are aligned consistently throughout the file.
## Semi-structured Data
Semi-strucutred data, as the name implies is data, such as java script object notation (json) files which may require flattening prior to loading into your source system. This data when flattened doesn't have to fit neatly into a table structure and when forced into a relational structure can contain many null values. This doesn't mean it has no value, in fact, many times it provides key insights that just need to be handled in a different manner than relational or strucutred data.
## Unstructured Data
Not only SQL (NoSQL) is a type of data that may contain key-value pairs data and doesn't adhere to standard relational models. This is a popular data storage format type and allows for a very quick way to store transactional data in a compact form that is optimized for data entry. Other types of unstructured data that are commonly used include portable data format (PDF), word processor documents, and simple text documents.
## Data Integration
Data Integration is the process of consolidating data from multiple sources and systems into a single cohesive structure. These source systems may be similar in structure which includes data types, table/file formats, and primary source system. In many cases the data engineer's primary concern is alignment between table keys to prevent collisions which can ultimately lead to corruption of datal.
## Data Transformation
Data transformation is the process of changing or cleansing data. This process may be perspective based depending upon the organizational unti that needs the data. For instance the calculation of a "Sale" will likely be different based upon whether the organization is part of Finance versus Sales. There are many nuances based upon the business rules of the oranization and the data engineer is responsible for determining where best to store these "business rules" which define the characteristics of the changes. 
Data transformation also involves process such as householding, de-deduplicating, key management, data lineage tracking, and feedback loop processes for data which doesn't match business rules amongst other organizational needs.
## Data Consolidation
Data consolidation in this context is different from what is done in the data integration phase as this section deals with consolidating the massive amounts of cleansed disparate sources throughout the process into a coherent storage pattern that may include a relational store, a blob stores, and even data lake stores. Several factors will drive this decision including costs, organizational maturity, organizational adoption of cloud technologies, and access approaches and tools. 
## Common Languages
One of the most common languages a data engineer might traditionally use is SQL or Structured Query Language but the emergence of Python, Scala, and even R have increased the flexibility and collaboration between roles using common tools, such as notebooks that allow for data engineers, data analysts, and data scientists to work together towards a single solution. This type of tooling also allows for the use of the markdown language so processes, rules, and steps can be documented with the code.