You're almost done. The last step is to make the features fully functional and maximize their capabilities. Integrating AI into your solution is what makes this level of enhancement possible. It redefines the boundaries of what can be achieved, empowering you to accomplish more, faster than was feasible previously. In this case, AI-enabled language transcription takes it to the next level.

## Specification

Edit the app to meet the following basic functionalities and specifications:

- Add the functionality to the Microphone feature to capture what is being said and pass the input to Azure Blob Storage. After the blob is created, pass the Blob Storage container url to the `AzureBatchSpeech-to-text` API to create a transcription.
- Add a functionality to the button to trigger a Power Automate flow that takes care of the text translation. This button will also store the information sent back by the Power Automate flow to the app.
- Add functionality to the Audio feature to read out the translated text.

Build a Power Automate flow that meets the following requirements:

- The flow stores the transcription text, translated text, and text-to-speech audio file in variables to send back to the app.
- The flow gets the created transcription with the transcription files to get the text.
- The flow uses the Microsoft Translator V3 connector to translate the extracted text into the chosen language from the Power App.
- The flow uses the `AzureTexttoSpeech` connector to convert the translated text into a speech audio file.

## Check your work

To validate that you've finished working on the requirement for this exercise, test your app behavior by following these steps:

1. Run your app and start a new translation.
2. Press the microphone control to record a speech.
3. Use the dropdown menu to select translation language.
4. Press the button to trigger text-to-speech.
5. Listen to the translated text.

## Homework

Make use of the data model you created in unit 3 and store the information generated by the Power Automate flow into the tables you created.

**Congratulations!** Your commitment paid off. You built a speech translator application using low-code solution Power Apps and successfully integrated Microsoft Azure AI Speech. You're a perfect definition of an AI-skillful low-code developer.
