Azure Front Door enables you to define, manage, and monitor the global routing for your web traffic by optimizing for best performance and instant global failover for high availability. With Front Door, you can transform your global (multi-region) consumer and enterprise applications into robust, high-performance personalized modern applications, APIs, and content that reaches a global audience with Azure.

Front Door works at Layer 7 or HTTP/HTTPS layer and uses **split TCP-based anycast protocol**. Front Door ensures that your end users promptly connect to the nearest Front Door POP (Point of Presence). So, per your routing method selection in the configuration, you can ensure that Front Door is routing your client requests to the fastest and most available application backend. An application backend is any Internet-facing service hosted inside or outside of Azure. Front Door provides a range of traffic-routing methods and backend health monitoring options to suit different application needs and automatic failover models. Like Traffic Manager, Front Door is resilient to failures, including the failure of an entire Azure region.

:::image type="content" source="../media/az500-front-door-2c4ce2b6.png" alt-text="Diagram showing tcp traffic being re-routed using Azure Front Door":::


The following features are included with Front Door:

 -  **Accelerate application performance** \- Using split TCP-based anycast protocol, Front Door ensures that your end users promptly connect to the nearest Front Door POP (Point of Presence).
 -  **Increase application availability with smart health probes** \- Front Door delivers high availability for your critical applications using its smart health probes, monitoring your backends for both latency and availability and providing instant automatic failover when a backend goes down.
 -  **URL-based routing** \- URL Path Based Routing allows you to route traffic to backend pools based on URL paths of the request. One of the scenarios is to route requests for different content types to different backend pools.
 -  **Multiple-site hosting** \- Multiple-site hosting enables you to configure more than one web site on the same Front Door configuration.
 -  **Session affinity** \- The cookie-based session affinity feature is useful when you want to keep a user session on the same application backend.
 -  **TLS termination** \- Front Door supports TLS termination at the edge that is, individual users can set up a TLS connection with Front Door environments instead of establishing it over long haul connections with the application backend.
 -  **Custom domains and certificate management** \- When you use Front Door to deliver content, a custom domain is necessary if you would like your own domain name to be visible in your Front Door URL.
 -  **Application layer security** \- Azure Front Door allows you to author custom Web Application Firewall (WAF) rules for access control to protect your HTTP/HTTPS workload from exploitation based on client IP addresses, country code, and http parameters.
 -  **URL redirection** \- With the strong industry push on supporting only secure communication, web applications are expected to automatically redirect any HTTP traffic to HTTPS.
 -  **URL rewrite** \- Front Door supports URL rewrite by allowing you to configure an optional Custom Forwarding Path to use when constructing the request to forward to the backend.
 -  **Protocol support - IPv6 and HTTP/2 traffic** \- Azure Front Door natively supports end-to-end IPv6 connectivity and HTTP/2 protocol.

As mentioned above, routing to the Azure Front Door environments leverages Anycast for both DNS (Domain Name System) and HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) traffic, so user traffic will go to the closest environment in terms of network topology (fewest hops). This architecture typically offers better round-trip times for end users (maximizing the benefits of Split TCP). Front Door organizes its environments into primary and fallback "rings". The outer ring has environments that are closer to users, offering lower latencies. The inner ring has environments that can handle the failover for the outer ring environment in case an issue happens. The outer ring is the preferred target for all traffic, but the inner ring is necessary to handle traffic overflow from the outer ring. In terms of VIPs (Virtual Internet Protocol addresses), each frontend host, or domain served by Front Door is assigned a primary VIP, which is announced by environments in both the inner and outer ring, as well as a fallback VIP, which is only announced by environments in the inner ring.

This overall strategy ensures that requests from your end users always reach the closest Front Door environment and that even if the preferred Front Door environment is unhealthy then traffic automatically moves to the next closest environment.
