

Intune provides built-in tools for reporting and monitoring compliance. These reports enable administrators to focus on situations and take action. Device compliance reports are meant to be broad in nature and provide a more traditional reporting view of data to identify aggregated metrics.

### Device compliance summary report

Use the following steps to view the Device Compliance Summary report:

1.  Sign in to the **Microsoft Intune admin center**.
2.  Select **Reports** > **Device Compliance** to view the reports summary.

:::image type="content" source="../media/intune-reports-compliance-summary-d675b4ee.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Conditional access screen in Intune, showing the summary page of compliant and noncompliant devices.":::


### Device compliance report

The Device Compliance report shows all the compliance states for devices to give a broader view of the data, no matter how large the dataset. This report shows the full breakdown of records in a visualization of aggregated metrics. This report can be generated by applying filters for compliance status, OS, and type of ownership. Selecting the "Generate report" button will refresh the data to show the latest state with the ability to view the individual records that make up the aggregate data. These records can be sorted and searched upon to focus on the information you need.

1.  Sign in to the **Microsoft Intune admin center**.
2.  Select **Reports** > **Device compliance**.
3.  In the details pane, select the **Reports** tab, then select the **Device compliance** option.
4.  Select the **Compliance status**, **OS**, and **Ownership** filters to refine your report.
5.  Select **Generate report** (or Generate again) to retrieve current data.

:::image type="content" source="../media/intune-reports-device-compliance-8686ddd2.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Conditional access screen in Intune, showing a device compliance report.":::


A device compliance trend report for device compliance trends can show the trend of device compliance states over a period of time. The aggregated data is displayed over a period of time, and is useful for making future investment decisions, driving process improvements, or prompting investigation into any anomalies. You can identify where compliance peaks occurred and focus your time and effort accordingly.

You can view the Trends report using the following steps:

1.  Sign in to the **Microsoft Intune admin center**.
2.  Select **Reports** > **Device compliance**.
3.  In the details pane, select the **Reports** tab, then select the **Device compliance trends** option.

:::image type="content" source="../media/intune-reports-compliance-trend-22dcd5b9.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Conditional access screen in Intune, showing a 60-day trend of device compliance status.":::
