:::image type="content" border="true" source="../media/surface-productivity.jpeg" alt-text="Photograph of a Surface device being used for productivity tasks.":::

While many types of users can see value from ARM-based Surface devices, it's ideal for mobile professionals, cloud-first workflows, and remote work.

- **Mobile professionals:** Imagine that you're a field manager, responsible for visiting multiple retail locations and meeting with various clients. To maintain productivity, you need a device that's portable while keeping up with the tasks of your day. ARM-based Surface devices offer long battery life—enabling all-day work without the need for charging the device midday. With the consolidated System on a Chip (SoC) framework, ARM-based Surface devices feature a lightweight, fanless design that makes them easier to carry between meetings and operate silently—which is ideal for meetings or quiet spaces.
- **Cloud-first workflows:** For the on-the-go professional, cloud-based work allows business users to maintain productivity while using applications designed for speed and battery efficiency. With native apps for tools like Microsoft 365 and Adobe Creative Cloud, ARM-based Surface devices empower business users to get more done using the cloud from wherever their work takes them. Plus, with enterprise-grade security, they have peace of mind that their data and sensitive information remain safe even when operating in a cloud-based environment.
- **Remote work:** For those in remote work roles, ARM-based Surface devices help to achieve efficient productivity regardless of the working environment. Reliable internet with optional 5G models helps remote workers get more done in more places—while extended battery life supports long virtual meetings and remote sessions. Lastly, improved emulation through Prism maximizes flexibility to support legacy applications that meet their business needs.

Whether in a scenario for a mobile professional, cloud-first worker, or remote work, ARM-based Surface devices help users stay productive and accomplish their tasks with enhanced flexibility.
