learn-pr/wwl-azure/deploy-applications-azure-kubernetes-service/includes/1-introduction.md, before:


This module covers how to apply and enforce security settings on Azure Kubernetes Service cluster hosted pods using Azure Policy.

## Scenario

In this module, you will learn how to use Azure Policy to enforce organizational standards and assess compliance at scale for AKS clusters. You will explore the Azure Policy add-on for AKS and learn how to assign built-in and custom policy definitions to individual or groups of clusters referred to as policy initiatives.

Azure Policy helps manage and report on the compliance state of your AKS environment. You will also learn how to implement security policies for individual AKS clusters without relying on Azure Policy by using Pod Security Admission. However, in enterprise scenarios, it is recommended to use Azure Policy-based policies instead.

## Learning Objectives

After completing this module, you'll be able to:

 -  Provision an AKS cluster
 -  Install the Azure Policy add-on for AKS
 -  Assign an Azure Policy initiative to an AKS cluster
 -  Validate the effect of Azure Policy

## Goals

By the end of this module, you will be able to provision an AKS cluster, install the Azure Policy add-on for AKS, assign an Azure Policy initiative to an AKS cluster, and validate the effect of Azure Policy.<br>

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[4ca924e2-4d50-49ad-a2de-c5905b0ad947] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-azure/deploy-applications-azure-kubernetes-service/includes/1-introduction.md, after:


This module covers how to apply and enforce security settings on Azure Kubernetes Service cluster hosted pods using Azure Policy.

## Scenario

In this module, you will learn how to use Azure Policy to enforce organizational standards and assess compliance at scale for AKS clusters. You will explore the Azure Policy add-on for AKS and learn how to assign built-in and custom policy definitions to individual or groups of clusters referred to as policy initiatives.

Azure Policy helps manage and report on the compliance state of your AKS environment. You will also learn how to implement security policies for individual Azure Kubernetes Service clusters without relying on Azure Policy by using Pod Security Admission. However, in enterprise scenarios, it is recommended to use Azure Policy-based policies instead.

## Learning Objectives

After completing this module, you'll be able to:

 -  Provision an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster.
 -  Install the Azure Policy add-on for Azure Kubernetes Service.
 -  Assign an Azure Policy initiative to an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster
 -  Validate the effect of Azure Policy

## Goals

By the end of this module, you will be able to provision an AKS cluster, install the Azure Policy add-on for Azure Kubernetes Service, assign an Azure Policy initiative to an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster, and validate the effect of Azure Policy.<br>
