In this exercise, you walk through the process of creating and updating a deployment in an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster. You use the cluster you provisioned in the first exercise of this module.

> [!NOTE]
> To complete this exercise, you need an [Azure Subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).

### Prepare for creating a deployment to an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster.

In this task, you prepare for a deployment to an AKS cluster by creating a namespace using Azure Cloud Shell.

1.  From the Azure portal, open a Bash session in the Azure Cloud Shell and run the following commands.
    
    ```azurecli
    kubectl create namespace demo-deployment
    kubectl get namespaces
    ```

2.  Run the following command to add a node to the AKS cluster.
    
    ```azurecli
    az aks show --resource-group $AKSRG --name $AKSNAME --query agentPoolProfiles
    az aks scale --resource-group $AKSRG --name $AKSNAME --node-count 2 --nodepool-name nodepool1
    ```
    
    > [!NOTE]
    > Wait until the extra node is fully provisioned before you proceed to the next task.

### Create a deployment

In this task, you create a deployment in the target AKS cluster.

1.  In the Azure portal, in the Bash session of Azure Cloud Shell, use the built-in editor to create a file named *nginx-deployment.yaml* and copy to the following YAML manifest:
    
    <!--- raw content start --->
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx-deployment
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: mcr.microsoft.com/oss/nginx/nginx:1.15.2-alpine
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 250m
            memory: 64Mi
          limits:
            cpu: 500m
            memory: 256Mi
<!--- raw content end --->
    
    > [!NOTE]
    > The image used by the deployment is set to `mcr.microsoft.com/oss/nginx/nginx:1.15.2-alpine`.<br>

2.  Save the changes to the file and close it to return to the Bash prompt.
3.  To create the deployment, from the Bash session in the Azure Cloud Shell, run the following command:
    
    ```azurecli
    kubectl apply -f nginx-deployment.yaml --namespace demo-deployment
    ```

4.  To validate the deployment, enumerate deployments, pods, and replica sets by running the following commands:
    
    ```azurecli
    kubectl get deployments --namespace demo-deployment
    kubectl get pods --namespace demo-deployment
    kubectl get rs --namespace demo-deployment
    ```

### Update the deployment

In this task, you update the deployment by replacing the image used by its pods.

1.  To replace the image used by our deployment, from the Bash session in the Azure Cloud Shell, run the following command:
    
    ```azurecli
    kubectl set image deployment/nginx-deployment nginx=nginx:1.16.1 --namespace demo-deployment
    ```

2.  To validate the deployment, enumerate deployments, pods, and replica sets by running the following commands:
    
    ```azurecli
    kubectl get deployments --namespace demo-deployment
    kubectl get pods --namespace demo-deployment
    kubectl get rs --namespace demo-deployment
    ```

### Roll back the deployment

In this task, you roll back the deployment by switching back to the original container image.

1.  To display the deployment properties, run the following command:
    
    ```azurecli
    kubectl describe deployment
    ```

2.  In the output generated by the command, review the replica set information, including the references to the old replica set.
3.  To roll back the deployment, run the following command:
    
    ```azurecli
    kubectl rollouts undo deployment/nginx-deployment --namespace demo-deployment
    ```

4.  To validate the rollback enumerate deployments, pods, and replica sets by running the following commands:
    
    ```azurecli
    kubectl get deployments --namespace demo-deployment
    kubectl get pods --namespace demo-deployment
    kubectl get rs --namespace demo-deployment
    ```

### Delete the resources provisioned in the module.

In this task, you delete the resources you provisioned in this module by deleting the resource group containing these resources.

1.  To validate the existence of the resource group you used in this module, from the Bash session in the Azure Cloud Shell, run the following commands:
    
    ```azurecli
    AKSRG='aks-01-RG'
    az group show --name $AKSRG
    ```

2.  To delete the resource group you referenced in the previous step, run the following command:
    
    ```azurecli
    az group delete --name $AKSRG --no-wait --yes
    ```
    
    > [!NOTE]
    > The command takes a few minutes for the resource groups to be removed.
