Large data projects can be complex, often with hundreds of decisions that need to be made and executed. Multiple people will typically be involved, each playing a specific role to take the project from design to production. Some of these roles, such as business stakeholders, business analysts, and business intelligence developers are well-known and still valuable. However as data processing techniques have changed with technology improvements, new roles are starting to appear that provide specialized skills to help streamline the data engineering process. 

In particular, three roles are starting to become prevalent in modern data projects.

1. Data Engineer
1. Data Scientist
1. Artificial Intelligence Engineer

## The Data Engineer

Data Engineers are responsible for the provisioning and configuration of both on-premises and cloud data platform technologies. They manage and secure the flow of structured and unstructured data from multiple of sources. The data platforms they manage can include relational databases, non-relational databases, data streams, and file stores. If that wasn't enough, they also must ensure that the data services integrate seamlessly with other data platform technologies or application services such as Cognitive Services, Azure Search, or even Bots, in a secure way.

The Azure Data Engineer focuses on data-related tasks in Azure. Primary responsibilities include ingesting, egressing, and transforming data from multiple sources using various services and tools. The Azure Data Engineer collaborates with business stakeholders to identify and meet data requirements while designing and implementing solutions. They also manage, monitor, and ensure the security and privacy of data to satisfy business needs.

This role is different from a Database Administrator in that their scope of work goes well beyond just looking after a database and the server it's hosted on. Data Engineers must also be able to acquire, ingest, transform, validate, and cleanup data based upon business requirements in a process referred to as _data wrangling_.

Their role can add tremendous value to both business intelligence and data science projects. It is widely regarded that data wrangling can consume a substantial amount of time on such projects. Having the Data Engineer perform these tasks can accelerate the development of these projects and enable Data Scientists to focus on other areas of their work.

Both Database Administrators and Business Intelligence professionals can easily transition to a data engineer role by learning the new tools and technology used to process these large amounts of data effectively.

## The Data Scientist

Data Scientists perform advanced analytics work to help drive value from data for a business. The type of work can vary from descriptive analytics; which is an analysis of the data through a process known as Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) through to performing predictive analytics. Predictive analytics enables a data scientist to perform modeling techniques using machine learning to create anomaly/pattern detection solutions through to predictive forecasting models. This represents one aspect of their work, and some may even go into the realms of deep learning, iteratively performing experiments to solve a complex data problem through the use of complex customized algorithms.

Anecdotal evidence supports the notion that most of the work that is spent on a Data Science project is data wrangling and features engineering. Data scientists appreciate the support they can receive from Data Engineers in this area to accelerate the experimentation process, as they recognize that Data Engineers possess the skill required to perform data wrangling successfully.

## The Artificial Intelligence (AI) Engineer

Artificial Intelligence (AI) Engineers work with AI services such as Cognitive Services, Cognitive Search, and the Bot Framework. Cognitive Services includes a wide set of services including Computer Vision, Text Analytics, Bing Search, and Language Understanding (LUIS) among others.  Rather than creating models, AI Engineers implement the prebuilt capabilities of Cognitive Service APIs and embed this intelligence within a new or existing application or more recently Bots. AI Engineers will rely on the expertise of Data Engineers to help them store information that is generated from AI. For example, an AI engineer may want a Data Engineer to provision a Cosmos DB instance to store metadata and tags generated by Computer Vision application that processes images.

## Understand the role differences

The role of the Data Engineer, AI Engineer, and Data Scientist are different, each solving a different problem. Data Engineers focus primarily on provisioning data stores. Extracting, loading, and transforming massive amounts of data, while ensuring that this is done securely and cost-effectively. AI Engineers add intelligent capabilities of vision, voice, language, and knowledge to applications using the prebuilt Cognitive Services that are available out of the box. And when the maximum capability of a Cognitive Service is reached, they can then call on a Data Scientists to work on developing the machine learning model and add the custom component to their applications using custom AI models. While each of the roles are different, they each contribute an important part to digital transformation projects.