One of the values of a system like CluedIn is that it builds golden records. Golden records are an amalgamation of many records from across one or more sources that are essentially the same semantic entity. 

For example, the term "Single View of Customer". You could imagine that all the information you have on a particular customer would be found in this one view, pieced together from different systems. In many cases, each system has a different representation of the same value. It's the role of CluedIn to interrogate this and automatically blend data together. So instead of having the "Microsoft" customer record in Dynamics CRM and the "Microsoft Corporate" record from Office 365, we have one record merged together, with a lineage of what values came from Dynamics CRM and which values came from Office 365.

It's also the responsibility of CluedIn to manage the merge conflicts. For example, if Dynamics CRM is saying that the company website is https://www.microsoft.com and Office 365 is saying http://microsoft.com. Essentially both values are correct, but we need to choose which one we want to represent the final composed record that we'll send to the downstream systems. Even after making these choices, CluedIn will maintain a history of all values, which can be made available to the downstream consumers.  

Deduplication in CluedIn is an iterative and cyclical process. If you have cleaner and more enriched data, then typically the deduplication can be more confident in identifying and merging duplicate records. So the advice here's that you should only merge records with high confidence and it's ok and sometimes even recommended that you wait to have more data or cleaner data before committing to a merge. You can always undo merges if you find later on they're incorrect.

The process of detecting duplicates is about first of all getting a list of possible duplicates and then going through a process of merging and survivorship. The survivorship in CLuedIn can either be automated or manual. When the Auto-Select is chosen, it will fall back to using the default Golden Record Evaluator. If not selected then you can manually choose which properties from which records will make its way to the Golden Record. Once again, you can always undo this at a later point if necessary.