Exercise - Interacting with data on the CluedIn processing pipeline. 

As data flows through the CluedIn processing pipeline, there are ways that, as developers, you can subscribe to events and make programatic changes on the data. There are 3 main parts of the processing pipeline that allow you to do this. Firstly, you can build a Rest Enricher which calls off to a Rest Service and then posts its results back to an ingestion endpoint in CluedIn so that you can map the results back into a Clue. The second approach is to Export the data after it has finished the processing pipeline of CluedIn and have this data post back to an ingestion endpoint in CluedIn. The final option is to create a Rule under the Rule Builder, where the Rule Action is to call off the a 3rd party Rest Service. Once again, the Rule Action will need to callback to an Ingestion Endpoint so that the results can be mapped into a Clue and processed. 

Let's start with something simple, which is to automatically enrich a record if it has a country code, with more information on the country itself, such as the country name, currency and more. The Rest Enricher takes many parameters, including a trigger property. This is so that we only enrich and process records that have a value for this particular property. 

This requires a Rest Service that given a country code (in the ISO standard format), it will return this in Json format, and that this result is then parsed, returned to an ingestion endpoint that we setup in CluedIn, so that the results can be mapped back into a record.

This service could also quite as easily be an Azure Function, Logic App or other service that simply posts its result back to a CluedIn ingestion endpoint in the shape of a Json Array so that it can be mapped and processed in CluedIn. This module does not cover this, nor does it cover the recommended CI/CD or source control management that would be needed to manage and deploy these components. 

*There is also an option (under settings) to globally expose all internal events to an Azure Event Hub.