With your data now mapped into the CluedIn platform and streaming to ADLS Gen 2, let's explore the data in the CluedIn Studio. 

1. In the search bar up the top of the Studio, search for **Lorain**. CluedIn will provide some autosuggested search results, but you can select the search button or press enter to see the results.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/auto-search.png" alt-text="Screenshot of CluedIn showing a search for Lorain in the top search bar.":::

1. If you mapped the data like in the previous exercise then you should see one result for Lorain. If you see more than this, please revisit the last part of the exercise as you may be missing an identifier mapped. Most importantly, we don't see three Lorain records from across the three input files, but rather one single record of Lorain. 

1. Select the result to be taken through the **Single View** of Lorain

1. Here are the inbuilt data quality metrics of CluedIn. Don't be alarmed if some of the quality metrics don't have a value yet, they'll either come over time or you may need to set up other parts of the platform for them to be enabled. You should, however see that we're starting to get scores for Data Accuracy, Data Completeness and more.

1. Navigate to the **All Properties** tab and you'll see all of the data for Lorain, including the fact that we don't have columns for first, fname, and first_name, but rather we have one normalized key, but we have the values from each of the respective input columns as values.

1. For any of the properties such as employee.Email, select the ellipsis button, to reveal a submenu where you'll have an option to **View History**.

    > [!NOTE]
    > Here you will notice that you have the three different emails of Lorain, more proof that we could not have used this to stitch together the three records.

1. Now select the **Relations** tab. There's one single record for Lorain, however there's a relationship that has been built to a company.

    >[!NOTE]
    > What is interesting here is that at no point in the mapping process did you tell CluedIn how to integrate the data, but rather you made a reference that the person_id column should refer to an Employee. Which file that Employee came from was not something that we specified.

1. Select the **History** tab to reveal that we have 4 entries. Unsuprisingly, we have the entries from the three files from Xero, Salesforce, and Experian. However there's another entry in here that didn't come from a file, but has been generated by the CluedIn system.

    This entry is what CluedIn calls a Shadow Entity. In the mapping process, you uploaded the file called **Companies.csv** first. In that CSV there was a reference to a Person/Employee with the column of person_id. When you processed this data into CluedIn, the system created a "placeholder" for a Person/Employee that may or may never actually enter the system at all. This is the Shadow Entity or "placeholder".

1. Finally, select the **Topology** tab where a visual is provided of the logic CluedIn used to stitch Lorain's record together from the three files. Unsuprisingly, it never used the email address to do this, but it did triangulate the ID and the PersonId from the three files to form one record.