Your challenge was to create unit tests for each method of the `BankAccount` class to achieve the following requirements:

1. Create a test project named `BankAccount.UnitTests` that you can use to create unit tests for the `BankAccount` class.

1. Create a base set of unit tests for each method.

1. Explore and create unit tests for edge cases.

This review describes the Copilot Chat features and prompts used to complete the challenge.

> [!NOTE]
> The responses generated by GitHub Copilot Chat are based on chat history and the context provided by the user. Other factors, such as AI model updates, may also influence responses. Your results should be similar to the results shown below with some variations expected.

The following sections show one possible solution for the challenge from the previous unit.

### Create unit test project

1. Open the Solution Explorer view.

1. Right-click the **APL2007M4BankAccountClass** folder, and then select **New Project**.

1. In the **Create a new project** dialog box, select **xUnit Test Project**.

1. Name the project **BankAccount.UnitTests**.

1. Save the project to the default location.

1. Delete the UnitTest1.cs file.

1. Add a reference to the BankAccount project.

1. Add a new class file named **BankAccountTests.cs** to the BankAccount.UnitTests project.

1. Build the solution.

### Create unit tests for the `BankAccount` class using inline chat

1. Open the BankAccount.cs file.

1. Select the BankAccount class.

    You could select a single method that you want to test, but that can lead to issues when GitHub Copilot generates the tests. By selecting the entire class, you help GitHub Copilot understand the context of the code you're working on. Your prompt can still specify unit tests for a specific method.

1. Enter one of the following prompts:

    For an inline chat, enter a prompt similar to one of the following prompts:

    ```plaintext
    #selection Generate xUnit unit tests for the Credit method. Show the unit tests without the surrounding class.
    #selection Generate xUnit unit tests for the selected methods. Show the unit tests without the surrounding class.
    ```

    For the Chat view, enter a prompt similar to one of the following prompts:

    ```plaintext
    @workspace #selection Generate xUnit unit tests for the Credit method. Show the unit tests without the surrounding class.
    @workspace #selection Generate xUnit unit tests for the selected methods. Show the unit tests without the surrounding class.
    ```

    If you ask GitHub Copilot to generate tests for all the methods, you generally get fewer tests per method than if you ask for tests for a specific method. You can ask for edge cases to be included in the initial prompt, but sometimes it's better to run two prompts that are more focused, than one prompt that tries to do everything.

1. Review the generated unit test code, and then insert the tests to the BankAccountTests.cs file.

1. Save the file, and then build the solution to verify that the tests are built and recognized within the Visual Studio Code environment.

1. Open the BankAccountTests.cs file.

1. Select the BankAccountTests class.

1. Open the Chat view.

1. Enter a prompt similar to the following prompt:

    ```plaintext
    @workspace #selection Are there edge case unit tests for the BankAccount class that are missing? If so, generate the edge case unit tests. Show the unit tests without the surrounding class.
    ```

1. Review the generated edge case unit test code, and then insert the tests to the BankAccountTests.cs file.

1. Save the file, and then build the solution to verify that the tests are built and recognized within the Visual Studio Code environment.

1. To repeat the process of generating edge case unit tests for the `BankAccount` class, enter a prompt similar to the following prompt:

    ```plaintext
    @workspace #selection Are there edge case unit tests for the BankAccount class that are missing? If so, generate the edge case unit tests. Show the unit tests without the surrounding class.
    ```

1. Review the generated edge case unit test code, and then insert the tests to the BankAccountTests.cs file.

1. Save the file, and then build the solution to verify that the tests are built and recognized within the Visual Studio Code environment.

1. Select the entire contents of the BankAccountTests.cs file, including the using and namespace located above the class.

1. Open an inline chat session, and then enter a prompt similar to the following prompt:

    ```plaintext
    #selection arrange the unit tests in order by the method that they are testing
    ```

1. Review the generated code, and then Accept the suggested update.

1. Save the file, and then build the solution to verify that the tests are built and recognized within the Visual Studio Code environment.
