learn-pr/wwl-azure/develop-azure-functions/includes/4-connect-azure-services.md, before:


Your function project references connection information by name from its configuration provider. It doesn't directly accept the connection details, allowing them to be changed across environments. For example, a trigger definition might include a `connection` property, but you can't set the connection string directly in a `function.json`. Instead, you would set `connection` to the name of an environment variable that contains the connection string.

The default configuration provider uses environment variables that are set in [Application Settings](/azure/azure-functions/functions-how-to-use-azure-function-app-settings?tabs=portal#settings) when running in the Azure Functions service, or from the [local settings file](/azure/azure-functions/functions-develop-local#local-settings-file) when developing locally.

## Configure an identity-based connection

Some connections in Azure Functions are configured to use an identity instead of a secret. Support depends on the extension using the connection. In some cases, a connection string may still be required in Functions even though the service to which you're connecting supports identity-based connections.

> [!NOTE]
> Identity-based connections are not supported with Durable Functions.

When hosted in the Azure Functions service, identity-based connections use a [managed identity](/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity?toc=/azure/azure-functions/toc.json). The system-assigned identity is used by default, although a user-assigned identity can be specified with the `credential` and `clientID` properties. When run in other contexts, such as local development, your developer identity is used instead.

## Grant permission to the identity

Whatever identity is being used must have permissions to perform the intended actions. This is typically done by assigning a role in Azure RBAC or specifying the identity in an access policy, depending on the service to which you're connecting. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Some permissions might be exposed by the target service that are not necessary for all contexts. Where possible, adhere to the **principle of least privilege**, granting the identity only required privileges.

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[7b1c9bb9-2752-40bc-be67-af017570a87f] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-azure/develop-azure-functions/includes/4-connect-azure-services.md, after:

As a security best practice, Azure Functions takes advantage of the application settings functionality of Azure App Service to help you more securely store strings, keys, and other tokens required to connect to other services. Application settings in Azure are stored encrypted and can be accessed at runtime by your app as environment variable `name` `value` pairs. For triggers and bindings that require a connection property, you set the application setting name instead of the actual connection string. You can't configure a binding directly with a connection string or key.

The default configuration provider uses environment variables. These variables are defined in application settings when running in the Azure and in the local settings file when developing locally.

## Configure an identity-based connection

Some connections in Azure Functions are configured to use an identity instead of a secret. Support depends on the extension using the connection. In some cases, a connection string may still be required in Functions even though the service to which you're connecting supports identity-based connections.

> [!NOTE]
> When running in a Consumption or Elastic Premium plan, your app uses the `WEBSITE_AZUREFILESCONNECTIONSTRING` and `WEBSITE_CONTENTSHARE` settings when connecting to Azure Files on the storage account used by your function app. Azure Files doesn't support using managed identity when accessing the file share.

When hosted in the Azure Functions service, identity-based connections use a managed identity. The system-assigned identity is used by default, although a user-assigned identity can be specified with the `credential` and `clientID` properties. Configuring a user-assigned identity with a resource ID is **not** supported. When run in other contexts, such as local development, your developer identity is used instead, although this can be customized.

## Grant permission to the identity

Identities must have permissions to perform the intended actions. This is typically done by assigning a role in Azure RBAC or specifying the identity in an access policy, depending on the service to which you're connecting. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Some permissions might be exposed by the target service that are not necessary for all contexts. Where possible, adhere to the **principle of least privilege**, granting the identity only required privileges.
