Working with data often involves arrays, or other types of collections. Typically you iterate through all items in a collection by using some form of loop. Vue.js supports loops through a directive called `v-for`.

## Introducing v-for

To display all items in a list, you can use the directive `v-for`. `v-for` behaves much like a `for ... of ...` loop in JavaScript. It will iterate through a collection, providing access to each item via the variable you declare.

The syntax for `v-for` looks like so:

```html
v-for="itemName in collectionName"
```

The `collectionName` is the name of the array in your data object. For each iteration, the `itemName` assumes the identity of your current item. To use `v-for` in a template, you add the directive inside of an element declaration. Doing so, will repeat the HTML element as many times as there items in the array.

> [!NOTE]
> If you were creating an unordered list (`ul`), you would **not** add `v-for` to the `ul` element, but rather the `li` element, since the `li` element is what will be repeated.

### Used in app

To use the `v-for` directive in app, you need to do two things:

- **Expose an array** via your data object. To be able to use the `v-for` directive, you first need to ensure there's a data that is of type array that your `data()` method is returning.
- **Add the `v-for` directive to an element**. You need to add the `v-for` directive to an HTML element. To display data from the array, you also need to use `{{}}` syntax. 

Let's say you expose an array of names in your data object:

```javascript
Vue.createApp({
    data() {
        return {
            names: ['Susan', 'Peter', 'Bill' ]
        }
    }
}).mount('demo');
```

If you wanted to display the items, you could use the following code:

```html
<ul id="demo">
    <li v-for="name in names">{{ name }}</div>
</ul>
```

When rendered, this would display all names in the array:

- Susan
- Peter
- Bill

## Keys and state

If the data is modified, Vue.js needs to be able to refresh the appropriate parts of the display. When working with a list, it's best to update the individual item rather than the entire list. To allow Vue.js to find an individual item, each item displayed should have a key. The key **does not** need to be part of the data; it can be generated by using the **index** of the array.

You can obtain the index by updating the `v-for` declaration as shown below:

```html
<ul id="demo">
    <li v-for="(name, index) in names" :key="index">{{ name }}</div>
</ul>
```

`index` will be incremented for each item in the array. The `:key` directive stores the key for Vue.js, allowing it to update the individual item as changes occur.
