Like the Azure DSR response, the Office 365 DSR response has a scope to it. Office 365 services are available in different environments that can impact the scope. For example, a DSR received by an Office 365 customer in Germany would be executed in a national cloud called Office 365 Germany. Another similarity between Azure and Office 365 DSR response is that the process of responding is broken into parts for ease of execution. 

## Scope of DSR for Office 365 applications
In general, the actions performed when executing a DSR for Office 365 applications will be the same regardless of the environment. However, there are some exceptions based on isolated clouds and cross-premises scenarios. 

**Office 365 National Clouds**

National clouds are isolated from the Office 365 cloud and may have notable differences in the DSR execution processes. The following are national clouds:
- Office 365 Germany
- Office 365 operated by 21Vianet (China)
- Office 365 US Government

**Hybrid deployments**

Many organizations choose to manage their user identities in on-premises deployments of Active Directory. Hybrid deployments combine cloud-based services and on-premises server products. In a hybrid deployments an organization can share accounts and resources. For example, a user can sign in with their on-premises user account and access their mailbox in the cloud. Some of the most common hybrid deployments include:

- Exchange hybrid deployments, mailboxes exist both on-premises and in the cloud for an organization.
- SharePoint hybrid deployments, On-premises SharePoint servers, on-premises files servers, Skype for Business Online, and  OneDrive for Business accounts are leveraged by an organzation.
- Identity management, on-premises Active Directory is synchronized with Azure Activity Directory utilizing Azure Active Directory Connect.

In a hybrid deployment the scope will vary based on the data that is responsive to a specific data subject's DSR. It will be up to the controller to determine if the response must come from the cloud or from on-premises. While this unit focuses on the cloud-based data responses, there is additional guidance available for responding to DSRs on-premises. See "GDPR for Office on-premises Servers" <!--- ID: I have moved the URL to the last Unit - RL --->


## DSR response processes for Office 365 applications

The guidance for executing a DSR in Office 365 ("Office 365 Data Subject Requests for the GDPR and CCPA") <!--- ID: I have moved the URL to the last Unit - RL ---> is broken into four parts. The high-level execution tasks differ based on the data type,  application, and the request type. Parts 1-3 detail the technical capabilities available to an organization to respond to a DSR request. In some limited scenarios, however, Microsoft will be the data controller when people use certain Office 365 products and services. Part 4 provides guidance on how data subjects can submit DSR requests to Microsoft.


**Part 1: Responding to DSRs for Customer Data**

Guidance on the execution of a DSR for customer data is organized into four sections:

- Using the Content Search eDiscovery tool to respond to DSRs
- Using In-App functionality to respond to DSRs
- Responding to DSR rectification requests
- Responding to DSR restriction requests

> Microsoft estimates that over 90% of an organization's data that is stored in Office 365 is authored in Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Outlook.

The following table shows the applications that support Content Search in Microsoft 365/Office 365.

|||||
|---|---|---|---|
|Calendar|Excel|Office Lens|OneDrive for Business|
|OneNote|Outlook/Exchange|People|PowerPoint|
|SharePoint|Skype for Business|Tasks|Teams|
|To Do|Video|Visio|Word|

Documents authored in Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Outlook are most likely stored on a SharePoint Online site, in a user's OneDrive for Business account, or in a user's Exchange Online mailbox. That means you can use the Content Search eDiscovery tool to search (and perform other DSR-related actions) across SharePoint Online sites, OneDrive for Business accounts, and Exchange Online mailboxes (including the sites and mailboxes associated with Microsoft 365 Groups, Microsoft Teams, EDU Assignments) to find documents and mailbox items that may be relevant to the DSR you're investigating.

You can use Compliance Boundaries together with eDiscovery cases to limit the content locations that can be searched in an investigation.

The following table shows the applications where in-app functionality is used in Office 365.

|||||
|---|---|---|---|
|Access|Education|Flow|Business App for Office 365|
|Forms|Kaizala|Planner|Power Apps|
|Power BI|Project|Publisher|Stream|
|Yammer||||

**Part 2: Responding to DSRs with Respect to Insights Generated by Office 365**

Microsoft cloud services include analytics that both users and organizations can utilize.

|Analytics service|Description|
|------|------|
|Delve|Insights for users|
|MyAnalytics|Insights for users|
|Workplace Analytics|Insights for organizations|

The execution of a DSR for MyAnalytics or Workplace Analytics include the following steps:
1. Access and export
2. Rectify
3. Restrict
4. Delete

**Part 3: Responding to DSRs for system-generated Logs**
GDPR may require an organization to provide system-generated logs when they contain a data-subject's personal information.  Some examples include:
- Product and service usage data (user logs)
- User search requests and query data
- Data generated by product and services as a product of system functionality and interaction by users or other systems

> **Note:** It is not possible to restrict or rectify data in system-generated logs. Doing so could expose the Microsoft cloud to fraud and increase security risks. This is because system-generated logs a historical record of the actions within the Microsoft cloud. Any changes to these logs would break thier integrity. 

The execution of a DSR for system-generated logs can include:
1. Accessing and exporting
2. Notifying about DSR execution issues
3. Deleting

**National Clouds**

National clouds are isoloated from other clounds by design. Administrators will need to follow the guidance from the cloud that contains the responsive data for the DSR they receive. In the case of the request for system generated logs the following will need to be perfomred:
- Office 365 Germany: Same steps as Microsoft 365/Office 365.
- Office 365 US Government: Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center and submit a request to Microsoft Support.
- Office 365 operated by 21Vianet (China): Go to the Microsoft 365 admin center operated by 21Vianet admin portal and then go to **Commerce > Subscription > Privacy > GDPR** and enter the required information.

**Part 4: Additional resources to assist you with DSRs**
The following table lists some additional resources availabe for other DSR scenarios that may occur in the Microsoft cloud.

|Customer Data location|Resource|
|---|---|
|Microsoft Support|Microsoft Support and Professional Services Data Subject Requests for the GDPR and CCPA|
|Microsoft is the data controller|Overview of optional connected experiences in Office|
|Personal accounts|Microsoft Privacy Dashboard|
|Third-party products|Third-party directly|
|Azrure DevOps|Azure DevOps Services Data Subject Requests for the GDPR and CCPA|
|Dynamics 365|Dynamics 365 Data Subject Requests for the GDPR and CCPA|
|Intune|Intune Data Subject Requests for the GDPR and CCPA|
|Visual Studio|Visual Studio Family Data Subject Requests for the GDPR and CCPA|








