Because the definition of "personal data" can be interpreted broadly, logs generated by Microsoft could contain data that is deemed personal. System-generated logs are an integral part of the service provided in the Microsoft cloud. As such, it is not possible to restrict or rectify data in these logs. Doing so could expose the Microsoft cloud to fraud and other security risks. System-generated logs are also an historical record and any modification would compromise the integrity of that record. The tenant administrator is the only one that can administer DSRs for system-generated logs for an enterprise customer.

## Scenarios for DSR in Azure and Office 365 for system-generated logs

Microsoft supports the following DSR requests for system-generated logs:

- Access Request
- Delete Request
- Export Request

Data that could be derived from system-generated logs includes:
- Product and service usage data (user activity logs)
- User search requests and query data
- Data generated by product and services when a user interacts with system functionality

Example 1: DSR for system-generated logs in Azure

A customer of Contoso, Ltd that resides in Spain has submitted a DSR form in the corporate website to see the <!--- Word "the" should be deleted. ---> their personal data stored in system-generated logs. To execute the DSR you perform the following tasks:

**Export**
1. Notify the Tenant administrator of the request for system-generated logs.
2. Tenant administrator uses the Azure portal to create an export request.
    * Open Azure portal
    * Select **All services** and then select **Policy**
    * In the Policy blade, choose **User privacy**, choose **Manage User Requests**, and then select **Add export request**
    *  On the **New export data request** form, provide the following details and then select **Create**
        - User
        - Subscription
        - Storage account
        - Container
3. Tenant administrator exports the data and send the data subject the file.

> **Note:** Because personal data can come from multiple systems, it's possible that the export process might take up to one month to complete.

Example 2: DSR for system-generated logs in Office 365 / Microsoft 365

A customer of Contoso, Ltd that resides in the Netherlands has submitted a DSR form in the corporate website to delete their personal data stored in system-generated logs. To execute the DSR you perform the following tasks:

**Delete**
1. Sign into the Azure portal
2. Navigate to Azure Active Directory and select **Users**
    * In the **All users** blade, select the check-box next to the data subject's user account.
    * Select **Delete user** and then select **Yes** to confirm. 
    * In the **Deleted users** blade, select the check-box next to the data subject's user account.
    * Select **Delete permanently** and then select **Yes** to confirm.

You may have noticed, in example 2, that the same process was used to satisfy the delete requests for personal data in Azure. The users personal data contained in the system-generated logs will be deleted, along with the user account, as long as it does not negatively impact the security or integrity the Microsoft cloud. This should be completed within 30 days of the user account deletion.

> **Note:** The exception to the 30-day period is the user's mailbox in Exchange Online. To prevent accidental data loss, Exchange Online places data in a holding state for up to 60 days after a user account has been permanently deleted. Microsoft Support will need to be contacted if the mailbox data must be removed outside the automated delete timeline. 

**National clouds**

In the event that Contoso, Ltd were to have a global presence in one or more national clouds, their tenant admin will need to do the following in order to execute an export request for system-generated logs:

|National Cloud|Export Steps|
|---|---|
|Office 365 Germany|Same steps previously described|
|Office 365 US Government|Go to the Office 365 admin portal <!--- I don't have access to Office 365 US Government or operated by 21Vianet, but I would expect that portal has "Microsoft 365" in its name (Microsoft 365 admin center), similarly as in publicly accessable Office 365. Please verify and update if needed (this and next table row). ---> and submit a request to Microsoft Support|
|Office 365 operated by 21Vianet (China)|Go to the Office 365 operated by 21Vianet admin portal and then go to **Commerce > Subscription > Privacy > GDPR** and enter the required information|

## Tools used for DSR for system-generated logs

The following table lists tool that can be used for executing DSRs for system-generated logs in the Microsoft Cloud.

|Tool Name|Description|
|------|------|
|Microsoft Data Log Export|System-generated logs can be exported by tenant administrators using the Microsoft Data Log Export.|
|User Privacy|Located in the Azure portal Policy blade. Used for Accessing and Exporting system-generated logs in Office 365.|
|Azure AD Admin Center|Delete a data subject from Azure Active Directory and system-generated logs.|


