Azure SQL Database is a fully managed Platform as a Service (PaaS) Database Engine that handles most of the database management functions such as upgrading, patching, backups, and monitoring without user involvement.

Azure SQL Database is always running on the latest stable version of SQL Server Database Engine and patched OS with 99.99% availability. PaaS capabilities that are built in to Azure SQL Database enable you to focus on the domain-specific database administration and optimization activities that are critical for your business.

## Key features

* **Business continuity**: Business continuity in Azure SQL Database refers to the mechanisms, policies, and procedures that enable your business to continue operating in the face of disruption, particularly to its computing infrastructure. In the most of the cases, Azure SQL Database handles the disruptive events that might happen in the cloud environment and keep your applications and business processes running.
* **Extensive monitoring and alerting capabilities**: Azure SQL Database provides advanced monitoring and troubleshooting features that help you get deeper insights into workload characteristics. These features and tools include:
  * The built-in monitoring capabilities provided by the latest version of the SQL Server database engine. They enable you to find real-time performance insights.
  * PaaS monitoring capabilities provided by Azure that enable you to monitor and troubleshoot a large number of database instances.
* **Availability**: Azure SQL Database comes with a core resiliency and reliability promise that protects it against software or hardware failures. Database backups are automated to protect your data from corruption or accidental deletion. As a Platform-as-a-service (PaaS), the Azure SQL Database service provides availability as an off-the-shelf feature with an industry-leading availability SLA of 99.99%.
* **High availability**: To achieve high availability in the Azure cloud environment, enable zone redundancy so the database, or elastic pool, uses availability zones to ensure the database, or elastic pool, is resilient to zonal failures. Many Azure regions provide availability zones, which are separated groups of data centers within a region that have independent power, cooling, and networking infrastructure. Availability zones are designed to provide regional services, capacity, and high availability in the remaining zones if one zone experiences an outage. By enabling zone redundancy, the database or elastic pool is resilient to zonal hardware and software failures and the recovery is transparent to applications. When high availability is enabled, the Azure SQL Database service is able to provide a higher availability SLA of 99.995%.
* **Automated backups**: SQL Database automatically creates the database backups that are kept between 7 and 35 days, and uses Azure read-access geo-redundant storage (RA-GRS) to ensure that they are preserved even if the data center is unavailable. These backups are created automatically. Database backups are an essential part of any business continuity and disaster recovery strategy because they protect your data from accidental corruption or deletion.
* **Long-Term backup retention**: Many applications have regulatory, compliance, or other business purposes that require you to retain database backups beyond the 7-35 days provided by Azure SQL Database automatic backups. By using the long-term retention (LTR) feature, you can store specified SQL database full backups in RA-GRS blob storage for up to 10 years. You can then restore any backup as a new database.
* **Active geo-replication**: The single database and pooled databases options allow you to configure up to four readable secondary databases in either the same or globally distributed Azure datacenters. For example, if you have a SaaS application with a catalog database that has a high volume of concurrent read-only transactions, use active geo-replication to enable global read scale and remove bottlenecks on the primary that are due to read workloads.
* **Failover groups**: All SQL Database deployment options allow you to use failover groups to enable high availability and load balancing at global scale. Failover groups allow for transparent geo-replication and failover of large sets of databases, and elastic pools. Failover groups enable the creation of globally distributed SaaS applications, with minimal administration overhead. This leaves all the complex monitoring, routing, and failover orchestration to SQL Database.
* **Zone-redundant databases**: SQL Database allows you to provision Premium or Business Critical databases or elastic pools across multiple availability zones. Because these databases and elastic pools have multiple redundant replicas for high availability, placing these replicas into multiple availability zones provides higher resilience. This includes the ability to recover automatically from the datacenter scale failures, without data loss.
* **Automatic performance monitoring and tuning**: SQL Database provides detailed insight into the queries that you need to monitor. SQL Database learns about your database patterns, and enables you to adapt your database schema to your workload. SQL Database provides performance tuning recommendations, where you can review tuning actions and apply them.
* **Advanced security and compliance**: SQL Database provides a range of built-in security and compliance features to help your application meet various security and compliance requirements.
* **Scale resources**: Azure SQL Database enables you to dynamically add more resources to your database with minimal downtime.
