learn-pr/wwl-azure/use-intelligent-planners/includes/1-introduction.md, before:

The Semantic Kernel SDK allows developers to integrate results from Large Language Models (LLMs) through natural language prompts and custom function plugins. While you can manually invoke functions and prompts, the SDK also supports automated task planning. A planner is a dynamic tool within the SDK that uses artificial intelligence (AI) to automatically coordinate which plugins and functions to invoke based on the user's request. This feature can help you build adaptive applications that respond intelligently to dynamic user input.

Suppose you want to create an AI disc jockey that can tailor a user's music listening experience. You can use native functions to interact with a music library, add songs to a user's "Recently Played" list, and recommend songs and concerts. Using planners, you can streamline the execution of complex tasks, such as recommending an upcoming concert, or suggesting a song the user might like. Planners help provide dynamic functionality, allowing you to quickly adapt to the user's ever-changing needs.

In this module, you learn about the different ways you can automatically invoke functions using the Semantic Kernel SDK. You can understand how planners can generate plans to accomplish tasks. You also learn how to fine-tune planners to optimize performance.

## Learning objectives

- Understand planners in the Semantic Kernel SDK.
- Learn how to use planners to automate function calls.
- Learn how to optimize planners.
- Learn how to use Semantic Kernel SDK to automatically invoke functions.

## Prerequisites

- Experience programming in C#.
- Visual Studio Code IDE installed.
- Familiarity with Azure and the Azure portal.
- Access to Azure Open AI Services.
- Experience creating plugins using the Semantic Kernel SDK.

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[229fa90e-8a49-410d-bed9-2140ac74015e] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-azure/use-intelligent-planners/includes/1-introduction.md, after:

The Semantic Kernel SDK allows developers to integrate results from large language models (LLMs) with semantic prompts and native function plugins. While you can manually invoke functions and prompts, the SDK also supports automated task planning. Automated task planning can coordinate which plugins and functions to invoke based on the user's request. This feature can help you build adaptive applications that respond intelligently to dynamic user input.

Suppose you want to create an AI music service can provides a personalized listening experience. You can create the plugins to interact with a music library, add songs to a user's "Recently Played" list, and recommend songs and concerts. Using planners, you can allow the appropriate plugins to be automatically selected depending on user input. Planners help provide dynamic functionality, allowing your AI agent to adapt to different scenarios without explicit programming.

In this module, you learn about the different ways you can automatically invoke functions using the Semantic Kernel SDK. You can understand how planners can generate plans to accomplish tasks. You also learn how to fine-tune planners to optimize performance.

## Learning objectives

- Understand planners in the Semantic Kernel SDK.
- Learn how to use planners to automate function calls.
- Learn how to optimize planners.
- Learn how to use Semantic Kernel SDK to automatically invoke functions.

## Prerequisites

- Experience programming in C#.
- Visual Studio Code IDE installed.
- Familiarity with Azure and the Azure portal.
- Access to Azure Open AI Services.
- Experience creating plugins using the Semantic Kernel SDK.
