In your online retail application, when a user places an order and wants to use a coupon code, a credit, or a dividend (or all three at once), you need to query their account for those options, make updates to their account indicating they used them, update the order total, and process the order.

All of these actions need to happen at the same time, within a single transaction. If the user chooses to cancel the order, you want to roll back the changes and not modify their account information, so that their coupon codes, credits, and dividends are available for their next purchase.

The way to perform these transactions in Azure Cosmos DB is by using stored procedures and user-defined functions (UDFs). Stored procedures are the only way to ensure **ACID** (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability) transactions because they are run on the server, and are thus referred to as server-side programming. UDFs are also stored on the server and are used during queries to perform computational logic on values or documents within the query.

## Stored procedure basics

Stored procedures perform complex transactions on documents and properties. Stored procedures are written in JavaScript and are stored in a container on Azure Cosmos DB. By performing the stored procedures on the database engine and close to the data, you can improve performance over client-side programming.

Stored procedures are the only way to achieve atomic transactions within Azure Cosmos DB; the client-side SDKs do not support transactions.

Performing batch operations in stored procedures is also recommended because of the reduced need to create separate transactions.

## Stored procedure example

The following sample is a simple HelloWorld stored procedure that gets the current context and sends a response that displays "Hello, World".

```javascript
function helloWorld() {
    var context = getContext();
    var response = context.getResponse();

    response.setBody("Hello, World");
}
```

## User-defined function basics

UDFs are used to extend the Azure Cosmos DB SQL query language grammar and implement custom business logic, such as calculations on properties and documents. UDFs can be called only from inside queries and, unlike stored procedures, they do not have access to the context object, so they cannot read or write documents.

In an online commerce scenario, a UDF could be used to determine the sales tax to apply to an order total or a percentage discount to apply to products or orders.

## User-defined function example

The following sample creates a UDF to calculate tax on a product in a fictitious company based the product cost:

```javascript
function producttax(price) {
    if (price == undefined) 
        throw 'no input';

    var amount = parseFloat(price);

    if (amount < 1000) 
        return amount * 0.1;
    else if (amount < 10000) 
        return amount * 0.2;
    else
        return amount * 0.4;
}
```

Let's try these features out in the Data Explorer.