learn-pr/wwl-azure/create-manage-active-directory-objects/includes/1-introduction.md, before:

This module covers the topic of managing user accounts, service accounts, and group objects in Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) using Windows Server. It also discusses the creation and management of computer objects and organizational units (OUs).

## Scenario

Imagine you are a system administrator for a large enterprise network. You are tasked with managing user accounts, service accounts, and group objects in your organization's AD DS. You also need to create and manage computer objects and OUs. The challenge is to do this efficiently and securely, ensuring that users can authenticate to the AD DS domain and access network resources, services run smoothly, and access to resources is properly managed.

## Learning Objectives

The topics covered in this module include

\- Understanding User Accounts

Service Accounts

Group Objects

and Computer Objects in Active Directory Domain Services

## Goals

By the end of this module, you will be able to manage user accounts, service accounts, and group objects in AD DS. You will also be able to create and manage computer objects and OUs, thereby improving the efficiency and security of your organization's network.

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[882a72fa-157b-466b-b045-1f29d81c4286] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-azure/create-manage-active-directory-objects/includes/1-introduction.md, after:

This module covers the topic of managing user accounts, service accounts, and group objects in Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) using Windows Server. It also discusses the creation and management of computer objects and organizational units (OUs).

## Scenario

Imagine you are a system administrator for a large enterprise network. You are tasked with managing user accounts, service accounts, and group objects in your organization's AD DS. You also need to create and manage computer objects and OUs. The challenge is to do this efficiently and securely, ensuring that users can authenticate to the AD DS domain and access network resources, services run smoothly, and access to resources is properly managed.

## Learning Objectives

By the end of this module, you'll be able to:

 -  Define users, groups, and computers.
 -  Define organizational units.
 -  Manage objects and their properties in Active Directory.
 -  Create objects in Active Directory.
 -  Configure objects in Active Directory.
 -  Perform bulk management tasks for user accounts.
 -  Maintain Active Directory Domain Services domain controllers.
