Azure Dedicated Hosts allow you to provision and manage physical servers within our data centers that are dedicated to your Azure subscription. Customers use this service to ensure that their VMs are hosted on private, dedicated hardware. Let's take a look at the purpose, benefits and capabilities of this feature set.

With Azure Dedicated Hosts, customers can choose from a range of host size families with varying levels of processing power, memory, and storage to meet their specific requirements. Compared to standard VM sizes, dedicated hosts give you exclusive access to a host, which would normally contain various other customers' similarly sized VMs. You'll have control over the underlying infrastructure of VMs and can ensure that they're isolated from other tenants who would otherwise be running on the same physical hardware. This service is useful for customers who have specific compliance requirements or who need to run applications that require substantial system resources.

You'll create a dedicated host group, which allows easier management of both hosts and VMs running on said hosts. You can still use most of Azure's features, which you would use on normal multi-tenant VMs. Licensing features such as Azure Hybrid Benefit to save money on licenses by using existing licenses also applies. This integration of Azure features ensures a seamless and cost-effective experience for businesses using dedicated hosts.

Features such as activity logs, tags, templates, storage, and more are all available with dedicated hosts. All the benefits of the Azure platform remain available to you with the addition of more control over your infrastructure.