Security is a significant concern to many data providers and consumers, and Azure Data Share leverages the security that Azure offers in relation to the protection of data at rest and in transit. 

Data that is shared or received is encrypted at rest if it is supported by the underlying datastore. For example, if you share a dataset from Azure Data Lake storage it is encrypted at rest and in transit since Azure Data Lake Storage supports data encrypted at rest and in transit.  

You can set Access Control at the Azure Data Share resource level to make sure that only the people who are authorized are able to access it. In addition to that, Azure Data Share uses managed identity to access data stores where the data resides for the use of data sharing. The reason why it is easy to configure a data share is because there is no need to exchange credentials between data provider or data consumer. 

For business continuity, it might be worth configuring a disaster recovery environment for Azure Data Share. Even though Azure data center outages are rare, it could cause disruptions in environments where there is dependency for data being shared by provider and consumer. As a data provider, you can have a data share environment provisioned in a secondary region to make sure that in case such an event occurs there will be a smooth failover. 

The data share resources that can be configured are shares and datasets that exist in the primary Azure Data Share resource. Your data consumers are still able to get access to the data that you shared if you invite them to the secondary shares once you’ve configured the Disaster Recovery environment in which snapshot schedules can still be enabled as part of failover (an active share subscription that is idle for disaster recovery). If the data consumer does not want to subscribe to the secondary region, you could invite them later as part of a manual failover step.
