The people in your organization each need a user account before they can sign in and access Microsoft Intune. To create user accounts, you can add users to Intune. Once added, you can grant permissions and assign licenses to users. Then later, you can assign different types of policies to users to help and protect them.

As an administrator, you can add users individually or in bulk to Intune. The easiest way to add user accounts is to add them one at a time in the Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center.

> [!NOTE]
> You must be an admin (global, license, or a user admin) to add users to Intune. If you set up Intune using the free trial, you are a global admin.

## Add individual Intune users one at a time

The following steps allow you to add individual users to Intune:

1. In the [Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), choose **Users** > **All users** > **New user** > **Create user**.
2. Specify the following user details:
   - **User name**: The new name that the user will use to sign in to Azure Active Directory.
   - **Name**: The user's given name. 
3. Choose whether you want to create the password for the new user or have it autogenerated.  
4. (Optional) If you have already created a new group, you can assign the new user to the group. To assign the new user to groups, choose **0 groups selected** to open the **Groups** pane. Here you can select the groups you want to assign to the user. When finished selecting groups, choose **Select**.
5. (Optional) By default, the new user is assigned the role of **User**. If you want to add roles to the user, select **User** next to **Roles**. In the **Directory roles** pane, select the roles you want to assign to the user and then choose **Select**.
6. If you want to block the user from signing in, you can select **Yes** for **Block sign in**. Make sure to switch this back to **No** when you're ready to let the user sign in.
7. Choose a **Usage location** for the new user. Usage location is required before you can assign the new user an Intune license.
8. (Optional) You can also provide information for the **Job title**, **Department**, **Company name**, and **Manager** fields.
9. Select **Create** to add the new user to Intune.

## Add multiple Intune users at the same time

You can add Intune users in bulk by uploading a csv file containing the full list of users. The following steps allow you to add multiple users to Intune:

1. In the [Microsoft Endpoint Manager admin center](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2109431), choose **Users** > **All users** > **Bulk operations** > **Bulk create**. The **Bulk create user** pane is displayed.
2. Download, edit, and upload a *csv* template containing a list of users that you want to add to Intune. 

The *csv* file is a comma-separated value list that can be edited in Notepad or Excel. For more information about using a *csv* file to add Intune users, see [Bulk create users in Azure Active Directory](/azure/active-directory/enterprise-users/users-bulk-add?azure-portal=true).

> [!NOTE]
> If you're using [Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager](/training/modules/intro-to-endpoint-manager/4-endpoint-configuration-manager?azure-portal=true) for your on-premises device management, you can configure directory synchronization to import user accounts from your on-premises Active Directory to Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). Having your on-premises Active Directory service connected with all of your Azure Active Directory-based services makes managing user identity much simpler. You can use the [Azure AD Connect wizard](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?azure-portal=true&id=47594) to connect your on-premises identity infrastructure to the cloud.

You can also add users manually using the Microsoft 365 admin center. For more information, see [Add Intune users in the Microsoft 365 admin center](/mem/intune/fundamentals/users-add#add-intune-users-in-the-microsoft-365-admin-center?azure-portal=true) and [Add users and assign licenses at the same time](https://support.office.com/article/Add-users-individually-or-in-bulk-to-Office-365-Admin-Help-1970f7d6-03b5-442f-b385-5880b9c256ec?azure-portal=true).
