
Azure Event Hubs supports both Microsoft Entra ID and shared access signatures (SAS) to handle both authentication and authorization. Azure provides the following Azure built-in roles for authorizing access to Event Hubs data using Microsoft Entra ID and OAuth:

* [Azure Event Hubs Data Owner](/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#azure-event-hubs-data-owner): Use this role to give *complete access* to Event Hubs resources.
* [Azure Event Hubs Data Sender](/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#azure-event-hubs-data-sender): Use this role to give *send access* to Event Hubs resources.
* [Azure Event Hubs Data Receiver](/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#azure-event-hubs-data-receiver): Use this role to give *receiving access* to Event Hubs resources.

## Authorize access with managed identities

To authorize a request to Event Hubs service from a managed identity in your application, you need to configure Azure role-based access control settings for that managed identity. Azure Event Hubs defines Azure roles that encompass permissions for sending and reading from Event Hubs. When the Azure role is assigned to a managed identity, the managed identity is granted access to Event Hubs data at the appropriate scope.

## Authorize access with Microsoft identity platform

A key advantage of using Microsoft Entra ID with Event Hubs is that your credentials no longer need to be stored in your code. Instead, you can request an OAuth 2.0 access token from Microsoft identity platform. Microsoft Entra authenticates the security principal (a user, a group, or service principal) running the application. If authentication succeeds, Microsoft Entra ID returns the access token to the application, and the application can then use the access token to authorize requests to Azure Event Hubs.

## Authorize access to Event Hubs publishers with shared access signatures

An event publisher defines a virtual endpoint for an Event Hubs. The publisher can only be used to send messages to an event hub and not receive messages. Typically, an event hub employs one publisher per client. All messages that are sent to any of the publishers of an event hub are enqueued within that event hub. Publishers enable fine-grained access control.

Each Event Hubs client is assigned a unique token that is uploaded to the client. A client that holds a token can only send to one publisher, and no other publisher. If multiple clients share the same token, then each of them shares the publisher.

All tokens are assigned with shared access signature keys. Typically, all tokens are signed with the same key. Clients aren't aware of the key, which prevents clients from manufacturing tokens. Clients operate on the same tokens until they expire.

## Authorize access to Event Hubs consumers with shared access signatures

To authenticate back-end applications that consume from the data generated by Event Hubs producers, Event Hubs token authentication requires its clients to either have the **manage** rights or the **listen** privileges assigned to its Event Hubs namespace or event hub instance or topic. Data is consumed from Event Hubs using consumer groups. While SAS policy gives you granular scope, this scope is defined only at the entity level and not at the consumer level. It means that the privileges defined at the namespace level or the event hub instance or topic level are to the consumer groups of that entity.
