
Microsoft Graph PowerShell wouldn't exist without Microsoft Graph. Microsoft Graph is a gateway to data and intelligence in Microsoft 365. It offers a single endpoint, `https://graph.microsoft.com`, to access rich, people-centric data and insights in the Microsoft cloud. The data and insights include Microsoft 365, Windows, and Enterprise Mobility + Security through REST APIs.
  
Microsoft Graph PowerShell is a Software Development Kit (SDK) that acts as an API wrapper for the Microsoft Graph APIs, exposing the entire API set for use in PowerShell. It contains cmdlets for all the Microsoft Graph APIs. Microsoft Graph PowerShell cmdlets and the reference documentation are autogenerated from the Microsoft Graph REST APIs.

## Packaging

Microsoft Graph PowerShell is packaged as the **Microsoft.Graph** module in PowerShell gallery as the root module, with multiple child modules. Microsoft.Graph acts as a container for the other modules.

**Microsoft.Graph.Authentication** is the core module, which contains the following components:

- `Connect-MgGraph`: to sign in to Microsoft Graph
- `Invoke-MgGraphRequest`: to issue REST API requests for the Microsoft Graph API
- Commands to discover permissions and API-specific Graph commands in other modules

Other modules are made up of thousands of commands.

Commands are named like **{Verb}**-Mg **{Resource}** (a Graph API resource) for example, user,group, and application. For example, in the command `Get-MgUser`, **get** is the verb and **user** the resource.

To differentiate between v1.0 cmdlets and those in beta, the beta cmdlets are prefixed with **Beta**. For example, `Get-MgUser` is the v1.0 cmdlet and `Get-MgBetaUser` is the beta cmdlet.

## Microsoft Graph PowerShell features & benefits

Microsoft Graph PowerShell has the following features and benefits:

- **Access to all Microsoft Graph APIs**: Microsoft Graph PowerShell is based on Microsoft Graph API. The Microsoft Graph API includes, in addition to Azure AD, APIs from other Microsoft services like SharePoint, Exchange, and Outlook, all accessed through a single endpoint with a single access token.
- **Supports PowerShell 7**: Microsoft Graph PowerShell module works with PowerShell 7 and later. It's also compatible with Windows PowerShell 5.1.
- **Cross-platform support**: Microsoft Graph PowerShell module works on all platforms including Windows, macOS, and Linux.
- **Supports modern authentication**: Microsoft Graph PowerShell supports the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) which offers more security. For example, you can use Passwordless sign-in experiences.
- **Supports external identities**: Users from other Azure AD tenants can authenticate to services in your tenant with Microsoft Graph PowerShell.
- **Uses least privilege**: Microsoft Graph PowerShell permissions are NOT pre-authorized and users must perform one-time request for app permissions depending on their needs.
- **Advanced queries**: Microsoft Graph PowerShell supports rich, advanced queries via eventual consistency. For example, you can get a near-instant count of all users using advanced queries.
- **Open source**: Feature teams and the community can create great PowerShell experiences and share them with everyone.
- **Receives regular updates**: Microsoft Graph PowerShell commands are updated regularly to support the latest Graph API updates.
