Backing up Azure virtual machines using Azure Backup is easy and follows a simple process.

:::image type="content" source="../media/backup-steps-97429b0d.png" alt-text="Three steps to create, use, and then backup.":::


1.  **Create a recovery services vault**. To back up your files and folders, you need to create a Recovery Services vault in the region where you want to store the data. You also need to determine how you want your storage replicated, either geo-redundant (default) or locally redundant. By default, your vault has geo-redundant storage. If you are using Azure as a primary backup storage endpoint, use the default geo-redundant storage. If you are using Azure as a non-primary backup storage endpoint, then choose locally redundant storage, which will reduce the cost of storing data in Azure.
2.  **Use the Portal to define the backup**. Protect your data by taking snapshots of your data at defined intervals. These snapshots are known as recovery points, and they are stored in recovery services vaults. If or when it is necessary to repair or rebuild a VM, you can restore the VM from any of the saved recovery points. A backup policy defines a matrix of when the data snapshots are taken, and how long those snapshots are retained. When defining a policy for backing up a VM, you can trigger a backup job once a day.
3.  **Backup the virtual machine**. The Azure VM Agent must be installed on the Azure virtual machine for the Backup extension to work. However, if your VM was created from the Azure gallery, then the VM Agent is already present on the virtual machine. VMs that are migrated from on-premises data centers would not have the VM Agent installed. In such a case, the VM Agent needs to be installed.
