<!-- Original file: C:\Users\Mark\Desktop\CMU\v_5_3\content\_u03_virtualizing_resources_for_cloud\_u03_m05_resource_virtualization_IO\x-oli-workbook_page\_u03_m05_1_intro.xml -->
Our final segment in resource virtualization concerns IO devices. In this respect, we can consider the VMM or hypervisor the arbiter of communication between multiple guests and the physical hardware, multiplexing the usage (in time/space or both), depending on the actual device being shared. 

The virtualization strategy for a given I/O device type consists of: 


1. Constructing a virtual version of that device, and 
1. Virtualizing the I/O activity routed to the device.
Typical I/O devices include disks, network cards, displays, and keyboards. As discussed previously, the hypervisor might create a virtual display as a window on a physical display. In addition, a virtual disk can be created by assigning to it a fraction of the physical disk's storage capacity. After constructing virtual devices, the hypervisor ensures that each I/O operation is carried out within the bounds of the requested virtual device. For instance, if a virtual disk is allocated 100 cylinders from among 1,000 cylinders provided by a physical disk, the hypervisor guarantees that no I/O request intended for that virtual disk can access any cylinder other than the 100 assigned to it. More precisely, the disk location in the issued I/O request will be mapped by the hypervisor to only the area where the virtual disk has been allocated on the physical disk. Next, we cover some I/O basics and then move on to the details of I/O virtualization. After covering the basics, we will examine the case of Xen, and how it handles IO virtualization.