"Linux on Azure" broadly encompasses two different kinds of Azure support for Linux applications and workloads: **infrastructure as a service (IaaS)** and **platform as a service (PaaS)**. Here, we'll explore exactly what those terms mean, and explore some of the additional Azure services and features you can take advantage of regardless of how you use Linux on Azure.

## Linux infrastructure as a service (IaaS)

With infrastructure as a service, you deploy your applications and workloads to virtual machines running in Azure. These VMs are connected to each other and to the internet by virtual network infrastructure that you define and configure.

Virtual machines can be provisioned and managed on an individual basis, or as **virtual machine scale sets**: groups of identical VMs managed through a central configuration interface. With scale sets, you can distribute your workloads to achieve high availability, redundancy, load balancing, and manual and automatic elastic scale.

Azure virtual machines support most common Linux distributions. The Azure Marketplace has hundreds of preconfigured Linux disk images across many popular distributions, all of which have first-class Azure platform support baked in. You can also create or migrate your own disk images, upload them to Azure, and create virtual machines from them.

IaaS is frequently the initial target for cloud migrations. The IaaS model allows you to reuse much of your on-premises architecture while taking advantage of many benefits provided by the cloud.

## Linux platforms as a service (PaaS)

PaaS enables you to deploy applications to the cloud without managing infrastructure. These managed service platforms trade the flexibility of virtual infrastructure for reduced maintenance concerns and easier scalability. Azure PaaS services let you control, configure and deploy your applications with the same centralized, globally available Azure Resource Manager management tools and libraries you use for provisioning.

Azure's Linux-based managed platforms allow you to confidently take advantage of the benefits of PaaS while retaining the technology foundation you're already familiar with. All of Azure's key PaaS offerings, including App Service, Functions, Azure Red Hat OpenShift, Azure Kubernetes Service, and Azure Container Instances support the use of Linux as their foundation and can host Linux-based applications and code natively.

If your organization uses a Linux-powered development workflow and/or runs production applications on Linux, you can often deploy or migrate applications to a managed Azure platform and enjoy the full benefits of PaaS with a minimum of effort.

## Additional Azure tools and services

Regardless of whether you use IaaS or PaaS, Azure tools and services offer a lot of additional value to Linux workloads beyond the standard cloud benefits of elasticity, agility, and reduced maintenance.

**Azure Resource Manager** provides a standard interface and set of concepts for managing every kind of Azure service and platform. Manage all of your resources and workloads in a single, browser-based graphical experience with the Azure portal. Automate resource provisioning and management from the command line with Azure PowerShell and the Azure CLI, available locally and in the browser via the Azure Cloud Shell, or from your own application code using libraries available for most common languages. Use Azure Resource Manager templates and Azure Blueprints to perform configurable, repeatable deployments of cloud infrastructure. With broad compatibility for third-party tools, you can preserve your existing investments in tools like Ansible, Chef, Puppet, Terraform, and Packer.

Get durable, scalable, web-accessible storage with the core Azure **storage services**: Blobs for unstructured cloud-native storage; Files for mountable file shares; and Queues for reliable messaging between applications. Mountable disk storage for virtual machines is managed just like other cloud resources, and Linux images in the Azure Marketplace have all of the needed drivers built in. Ultra disk storage provides industry-leading throughput and sub-millisecond latency.

Achieve flexible and secure communication between VMs, services, and the internet with Azure's **virtual networking and network appliances**. Use network security groups and Azure Firewall for fine-grained control over the traffic in your virtual network. Direct web traffic to your applications with a comprehensive suite of load balancing and firewall services. Extend your on-premises network connectivity to Azure with VPN Gateway and ExpressRoute. Use HPC-grade VMs with Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA) to drive demanding high-performance workloads like weather modeling and physical simulations.

Azure's **database services** provide both familiar features and unique innovation in cloud-hosted databases. The Azure SQL family of products provides the SQL Server database engine in multiple forms: Azure SQL Database for fully managed PaaS-style database support, SQL Managed Instances for on-premises SQL Server compatibility with PaaS management benefits, and SQL Server on Windows and Linux VMs for full operating system access and complete lift-and-shift compatibility. Azure Cosmos DB offers global distribution and multiple storage models in a globally distributed data platform designed for the cloud. Azure Cache for Redis enables you to use the fast, well-known Redis storage server without managing a virtual machine.

Improve the intelligence of your apps with **AI and cognitive services**: Cognitive Search provides fully managed, AI-powered search-as-a-service to support search scenarios in your apps. Azure Machine Learning helps developers and data scientists of all skill levels be productive with drag-and-drop, guided machine learning model development. Bot Service lets you create conversational bots to interact with your users. Azure Cognitive Services is a family of vision, speech, language, web search, and decision APIs for adding cognitive features to applications.

Maintain control of your applications with a comprehensive set of **governance and monitoring** capabilities. Monitor and optimize spending with Azure Cost Management's budgeting and reporting capabilities. Enforce organizational standards with Azure Policy business rules and alerts. Define policy-backed resources with Azure Blueprints. Centralize monitoring, logging, and performance analysis across your entire cloud infrastructure with Azure Monitor. Instrument applications with Application Insights, perform deep queries with Log Analytics, and trigger automated actions and notifications with alerts.

Build a secure foundation for your apps and workloads with Azure's **security tools and capabilities**. Harden your VMs and services with the recommendations provided by Azure Security Center. Protect and manage secure application configuration and certificates with Azure Key Vault. Detect and respond to security incidents in real time with Azure Sentinel's intelligent analytics. Azure Active Directory provides cloud-native identity and access management for role-based access control across all of your Azure resources. Most Azure services encrypt stored data by default, including VM disks.

Keep your data safe and your workloads online with an Azure-supported **business continuity and disaster recovery** strategy. Azure Backup creates encrypted snapshot backups of all of your VMs and supports application consistency, ensuring that applications start up as expected after restoring a snapshot.  Site Recovery ensures that apps and workloads remain up and running during outages by replicating VMs across geographical regions.

**Azure Migrate** helps you migrate your business workloads from on-premises platforms - whether deployed on physical or virtual servers - to Azure. Use Azure Migrate's assessment tools you discover and assess on-premises VMware VMs, Hyper-V VMs, and physical servers to determine whether they're ready for migration. Then, use the migration tools to test migration and migrate automatically. The Azure Migrate hub provides a centralized record of discovery, assessment, and migration activities.
