Microsoft Fabric is an end-to-end, analytics and data platform that provides a unified solution for data storage, movement, transformation, processing, real-time event routing, and reporting. When working with a large volume of data in Fabric, some of which is highly sensitive, you must ensure that it's accurate, trustworthy, and protected throughout the data lifecycle. Data governance is the set of techniques and tools that you use to implement these requirements.

Microsoft Purview has a data governance solution designed to help you discover, catalog, and manage data assets across your organization. It provides a unified view of your data estate by scanning and cataloging metadata from various data sources, including Microsoft Fabric. Purview has three pillars: data governance, data security, and risk and compliance. In this module, we'll focus on data governance.

Imagine you're in a data stewardship role at a healthcare organization, responsible for managing and safeguarding sensitive patient information. You rely on Microsoft Fabric to store, analyze, manipulate, and report on data, all while ensuring compliance with health data regulations such as HIPAA. Fabric offers built-in data governance capabilities to support these responsibilities. Now, you're looking to explore how integrating Microsoft Purview with Fabric can further enhance your ability to protect sensitive data and maintain regulatory compliance.

In this module, you'll learn how Purview data governance features work with Fabric and how to use them for compliance, security, and discoverability.
