learn-pr/azure/monitor-java-azure/includes/8-distributed.md, before:

In this unit, we look at monitoring the entire solution.

## Introduction

Enabling monitoring across today's complex computing environments, requires collection of operational data from every layer, and component, of a distributed system. You need deep insights on this data and combine it with different perspectives to support the multitude of stakeholders in your organization.

Azure Monitor collects data from different kinds of sources where it can be used for analysis, visualization, and alerting. It gives you deep insights across all your monitored resources and even with data from other services that store their data in Azure Monitor.

## Log analytics

Logs are events that occurred within the system. Logs can contain different kinds of data and may be structured or free form text with a timestamp. Logs may be created sporadically as events in the environment generate log entries, and a system under heavy load will typically generate more log volume.

Logs in Azure Monitor are valuable for identifying root case of issues. Data collected by Azure Monitor Logs is stored in one or more Log Analytics workspaces. Data is retrieved from a Log Analytics workspace using a log query, which is a read-only request to process data and return results. Log queries are written in **Kusto Query Language (KQL)**, which is the same query language used by Azure Data Explorer.

> [!NOTE]
> Your Azure Spring Cloud sample application already has been setup with a Log Analytics workspace.
> For more information on **KQL** syntax, see the Summary unit at the end of this training.

### Use Log Analytics

There are actually three ways to access your application's logs: Azure Storage, Azure Events Hub, and Log Analytics. We'll focus here on Log Analytics as it's the most common one and is integrated into Azure Spring Cloud for metrics monitoring.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The Log data ingestion time in Azure Monitor can take up to 15 minutes. If data is not found in Log Analytics, it may take additional time to ingest Azure Spring Cloud log data.

1. Open the Azure portal

2. Select "Azure Spring Cloud" from the list of Azure services

3. Select your Azure Spring Cloud instance

4. Next, under the Monitoring section, select **Logs**.

5. In the **Query** search box:

   :::image type="content" source="../media/8-cloud-logs.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot showing query for Azure spring cloud logs" lightbox="../media/8-cloud-logs.jpg":::

   - to view logs, run a query such as:

     ```sql
     AppPlatformLogsforSpring
     | limit 50
     ```

   - to view metrics, enter a query such as:

     ```sql
     AzureMetrics
     | limit 50
     ```

   - You can search the logs of the specific application or instance by setting a filter condition:

     ```sql
     AppPlatformLogsforSpring
     | where ServiceName == "YourServiceName" and AppName == "YourAppName" and InstanceName == "YourInstanceName"
     | limit 50
     ```

### Analyze the Application logs

Application logs provide critical information and verbose logs about your application's health, performance, and more. In the next sections are some  queries to help you understand your application's current and past states.

### Show application logs from Azure Spring Cloud

1. Open the Azure portal

2. Select "Azure Spring Cloud" from the list of Azure services

3. Select your Azure Spring Cloud instance

4. Next, under the Monitoring section, select **Logs**.

5. In the **Query** search box:

   - To review a list of application logs from Azure Spring Cloud, sorted by time with the most recent logs shown first, run the following query:

     ```sql
     AppPlatformLogsforSpring
     | project TimeGenerated , ServiceName , AppName , InstanceName , Log
     | sort by TimeGenerated desc
     ```

   - To review unsorted log entries that mention an error or exception, run the following query:

     ```sql
     AppPlatformLogsforSpring
     | project TimeGenerated , ServiceName , AppName , InstanceName , Log
     | where Log contains "error" or Log contains "exception"
     ```

    - To create a pie chart that displays the number of errors and exceptions logged by your application, run the following query:

       ```sql
       AppPlatformLogsforSpring
       | where TimeGenerated > ago(1h)
       | where Log contains "error" or Log contains "exception"
       | summarize count_per_app = count() by AppName
       | sort by count_per_app desc
       | render piechart
       ```

## Database Monitoring

Monitoring data about your servers helps you troubleshoot and optimize for your workload. Azure Database for MySQL provides various metrics that give insight into the behavior of your server.

In Azure Database for MySQL, the slow query log is available to users. Access to the transaction log isn't supported. The slow query log can be used to identify performance bottlenecks for troubleshooting.

In our sample application, your slow query logs are set up to be piped to Azure Monitor Logs through Diagnostic Logs, and you can do further analysis of your slow queries. Below are sample queries to help you get started:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The MySQL Log data ingestion time in Azure Monitor can take up to 30 minutes. If data is not found in Log Analytics, it may take additional time to ingest MySQL log data.

1. Sign in to the Azure portal.

2. Select your Azure Database for MySQL server you use for your Azure Spring Cloud

3. Next, under the Monitoring section, select **Logs**.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/8-mysql-logs.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot showing query for queries longer than 1 second" lightbox="../media/8-mysql-logs.jpg":::

4. In the **Query** search box,

   - Retrieve all Queries longer than 1-second

     ```sql
     AzureDiagnostics
     | where Category == 'MySqlSlowLogs'
     | project TimeGenerated, LogicalServerName_s, event_class_s, start_time_t , query_time_d, sql_text_s 
     ```

   - List top five longest queries

     ```sql
     AzureDiagnostics
     | where Category == 'MySqlSlowLogs'
     | project TimeGenerated, LogicalServerName_s, event_class_s, start_time_t , query_time_d, sql_text_s 
     | order by query_time_d desc
     | take 5
     ```

   - Summarize slow queries by minimum, maximum, average, and standard deviation query time

     ```sql
     AzureDiagnostics
     | where Category == 'MySqlSlowLogs'
     | project TimeGenerated, LogicalServerName_s, event_class_s, start_time_t , query_time_d, sql_text_s 
     | summarize count(), min(query_time_d), max(query_time_d), avg(query_time_d), stdev(query_time_d), percentile(query_time_d, 95) by LogicalServerName_s
     ```

   - Graph the slow query distribution on a particular server

     ```sql
     AzureDiagnostics
     | where Category == 'MySqlSlowLogs'
     | project TimeGenerated, LogicalServerName_s, event_class_s, start_time_t , query_time_d, sql_text_s 
     | summarize count() by LogicalServerName_s, bin(TimeGenerated, 5m)
     | render timechart
     ```

5. The audit log can also be used to track database-level activity and is commonly used for compliance. Audit logs are integrated with Azure Monitor Diagnostic Logs. In your sample, we've enabled audit logs on your MySQL server so you can do further analysis of your audited events.

   - Below is a sample query, that retrieves the general MySQL log:

      ```sql
      AzureDiagnostics
      | where Category == 'MySqlAuditLogs' and event_class_s == "general_log"
      | project TimeGenerated, LogicalServerName_s, event_class_s, event_subclass_s, event_time_t, user_s , ip_s , sql_text_s 
      | order by TimeGenerated desc
      ```

## Query Store and Performance Insights

Query Store is a feature that keeps track of query performance over time including query runtime statistics and wait events.

Query Performance Insight works with Query Store to provide visualizations accessible from the Azure portal. These charts enable you to identify key queries that affect performance. Query Performance Insight is accessible in the Intelligent Performance section of your Azure Database for MySQL server's portal page.

Query Performance Insight helps you to quickly identify what your longest running queries are, how they change over time, and what waits are affecting them.

### Viewing performance insights

The Query Performance Insight view in the Azure portal will surface visualizations on key information from Query Store.

1. Sign in to the Azure portal.
2. Select your Azure Database for MySQL server you use for your Azure Spring Cloud
3. In the portal page of your Azure Database for MySQL server, select **Query Performance Insight** under the **Intelligent Performance** section of the menu bar.

### Long running queries

The **Long running queries tab** shows the top 5 queries by average duration per execution, aggregated in 15-minute intervals

> [!NOTE]
> As part of the setup script, your Azure Spring Cloud sample application activated Query Performance Insights for Long running queries for your MySQL instance.
> For Query Performance Insight to function, data must exist in the Query Store and can take a few minutes to reflect.

:::image type="content" source="../media/8-query-performance.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot showing Long running queries view for MySQL server" lightbox="../media/8-query-performance.jpg":::

### Wait statistics

Wait statistics provides a view of the wait events that occur during the execution of a specific query.
Select the **Wait Statistics** tab to view the corresponding visualizations on waits in the server.

> [!NOTE]
> Wait statistics are meant for troubleshooting query performance issues. By default Wait Statistics is not switched on as it is recommended to be turned on only for troubleshooting purposes.

## Performance Recommendations

The Performance Recommendations feature analyzes workloads across your server to identify indexes with the potential to improve performance.
Open Performance Recommendations from the **Intelligent Performance** section of the menu bar on the Azure portal page for your MySQL server.

> [!NOTE]
> For more information on Database Monitoring, see the **Summary** unit at the end of this training.

## UI monitoring

If you add Application Insights to your page script, you get timings of page loads and AJAX calls, counts, and details of browser exceptions and AJAX failures, also users and session counts. All these metrics can be segmented by page, client OS and browser version, geo location, and other dimensions. You can set alerts on failure counts or slow page loading. And by inserting trace calls in your JavaScript code, you can track how the different features of your web page application are used.
Application Insights can be used with any web pages - you just add a short piece of JavaScript. If your web service is Java, you can use the server-side SDKs with the client-side JavaScript SDK to get an understanding of your app's performance.

> [!NOTE]
> For more information on UI monitoring, see the Summary unit at the end of this training.

Commit message:

rename to azure spring apps

learn-pr/azure/monitor-java-azure/includes/8-distributed.md, after:

In this unit, we look at monitoring the entire solution.

## Introduction

Enabling monitoring across today's complex computing environments, requires collection of operational data from every layer, and component, of a distributed system. You need deep insights on this data and combine it with different perspectives to support the multitude of stakeholders in your organization.

Azure Monitor collects data from different kinds of sources where it can be used for analysis, visualization, and alerting. It gives you deep insights across all your monitored resources and even with data from other services that store their data in Azure Monitor.

## Log analytics

Logs are events that occurred within the system. Logs can contain different kinds of data and may be structured or free form text with a timestamp. Logs may be created sporadically as events in the environment generate log entries, and a system under heavy load will typically generate more log volume.

Logs in Azure Monitor are valuable for identifying root case of issues. Data collected by Azure Monitor Logs is stored in one or more Log Analytics workspaces. Data is retrieved from a Log Analytics workspace using a log query, which is a read-only request to process data and return results. Log queries are written in **Kusto Query Language (KQL)**, which is the same query language used by Azure Data Explorer.

> [!NOTE]
> Your Azure Spring Apps sample application already has been setup with a Log Analytics workspace.
> For more information on **KQL** syntax, see the Summary unit at the end of this training.

### Use Log Analytics

There are actually three ways to access your application's logs: Azure Storage, Azure Events Hub, and Log Analytics. We'll focus here on Log Analytics as it's the most common one and is integrated into Azure Spring Apps for metrics monitoring.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The Log data ingestion time in Azure Monitor can take up to 15 minutes. If data is not found in Log Analytics, it may take additional time to ingest Azure Spring Apps log data.

1. Open the Azure portal

2. Select "Azure Spring Apps" from the list of Azure services

3. Select your Azure Spring Apps instance

4. Next, under the Monitoring section, select **Logs**.

5. In the **Query** search box:

   :::image type="content" source="../media/8-cloud-logs.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot showing query for Azure Spring Apps logs" lightbox="../media/8-cloud-logs.jpg":::

   - to view logs, run a query such as:

     ```sql
     AppPlatformLogsforSpring
     | limit 50
     ```

   - to view metrics, enter a query such as:

     ```sql
     AzureMetrics
     | limit 50
     ```

   - You can search the logs of the specific application or instance by setting a filter condition:

     ```sql
     AppPlatformLogsforSpring
     | where ServiceName == "YourServiceName" and AppName == "YourAppName" and InstanceName == "YourInstanceName"
     | limit 50
     ```

### Analyze the Application logs

Application logs provide critical information and verbose logs about your application's health, performance, and more. In the next sections are some  queries to help you understand your application's current and past states.

### Show application logs from Azure Spring Apps

1. Open the Azure portal

2. Select "Azure Spring Apps" from the list of Azure services

3. Select your Azure Spring Apps instance

4. Next, under the Monitoring section, select **Logs**.

5. In the **Query** search box:

   - To review a list of application logs from Azure Spring Apps, sorted by time with the most recent logs shown first, run the following query:

     ```sql
     AppPlatformLogsforSpring
     | project TimeGenerated , ServiceName , AppName , InstanceName , Log
     | sort by TimeGenerated desc
     ```

   - To review unsorted log entries that mention an error or exception, run the following query:

     ```sql
     AppPlatformLogsforSpring
     | project TimeGenerated , ServiceName , AppName , InstanceName , Log
     | where Log contains "error" or Log contains "exception"
     ```

    - To create a pie chart that displays the number of errors and exceptions logged by your application, run the following query:

       ```sql
       AppPlatformLogsforSpring
       | where TimeGenerated > ago(1h)
       | where Log contains "error" or Log contains "exception"
       | summarize count_per_app = count() by AppName
       | sort by count_per_app desc
       | render piechart
       ```

## Database Monitoring

Monitoring data about your servers helps you troubleshoot and optimize for your workload. Azure Database for MySQL provides various metrics that give insight into the behavior of your server.

In Azure Database for MySQL, the slow query log is available to users. Access to the transaction log isn't supported. The slow query log can be used to identify performance bottlenecks for troubleshooting.

In our sample application, your slow query logs are set up to be piped to Azure Monitor Logs through Diagnostic Logs, and you can do further analysis of your slow queries. Below are sample queries to help you get started:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The MySQL Log data ingestion time in Azure Monitor can take up to 30 minutes. If data is not found in Log Analytics, it may take additional time to ingest MySQL log data.

1. Sign in to the Azure portal.

2. Select your Azure Database for MySQL server you use for your Azure Spring Apps

3. Next, under the Monitoring section, select **Logs**.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/8-mysql-logs.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot showing query for queries longer than 1 second" lightbox="../media/8-mysql-logs.jpg":::

4. In the **Query** search box,

   - Retrieve all Queries longer than 1-second

     ```sql
     AzureDiagnostics
     | where Category == 'MySqlSlowLogs'
     | project TimeGenerated, LogicalServerName_s, event_class_s, start_time_t , query_time_d, sql_text_s 
     ```

   - List top five longest queries

     ```sql
     AzureDiagnostics
     | where Category == 'MySqlSlowLogs'
     | project TimeGenerated, LogicalServerName_s, event_class_s, start_time_t , query_time_d, sql_text_s 
     | order by query_time_d desc
     | take 5
     ```

   - Summarize slow queries by minimum, maximum, average, and standard deviation query time

     ```sql
     AzureDiagnostics
     | where Category == 'MySqlSlowLogs'
     | project TimeGenerated, LogicalServerName_s, event_class_s, start_time_t , query_time_d, sql_text_s 
     | summarize count(), min(query_time_d), max(query_time_d), avg(query_time_d), stdev(query_time_d), percentile(query_time_d, 95) by LogicalServerName_s
     ```

   - Graph the slow query distribution on a particular server

     ```sql
     AzureDiagnostics
     | where Category == 'MySqlSlowLogs'
     | project TimeGenerated, LogicalServerName_s, event_class_s, start_time_t , query_time_d, sql_text_s 
     | summarize count() by LogicalServerName_s, bin(TimeGenerated, 5m)
     | render timechart
     ```

5. The audit log can also be used to track database-level activity and is commonly used for compliance. Audit logs are integrated with Azure Monitor Diagnostic Logs. In your sample, we've enabled audit logs on your MySQL server so you can do further analysis of your audited events.

   - Below is a sample query, that retrieves the general MySQL log:

      ```sql
      AzureDiagnostics
      | where Category == 'MySqlAuditLogs' and event_class_s == "general_log"
      | project TimeGenerated, LogicalServerName_s, event_class_s, event_subclass_s, event_time_t, user_s , ip_s , sql_text_s 
      | order by TimeGenerated desc
      ```

## Query Store and Performance Insights

Query Store is a feature that keeps track of query performance over time including query runtime statistics and wait events.

Query Performance Insight works with Query Store to provide visualizations accessible from the Azure portal. These charts enable you to identify key queries that affect performance. Query Performance Insight is accessible in the Intelligent Performance section of your Azure Database for MySQL server's portal page.

Query Performance Insight helps you to quickly identify what your longest running queries are, how they change over time, and what waits are affecting them.

### Viewing performance insights

The Query Performance Insight view in the Azure portal will surface visualizations on key information from Query Store.

1. Sign in to the Azure portal.
2. Select your Azure Database for MySQL server you use for your Azure Spring Apps
3. In the portal page of your Azure Database for MySQL server, select **Query Performance Insight** under the **Intelligent Performance** section of the menu bar.

### Long running queries

The **Long running queries tab** shows the top 5 queries by average duration per execution, aggregated in 15-minute intervals

> [!NOTE]
> As part of the setup script, your Azure Spring Apps sample application activated Query Performance Insights for Long running queries for your MySQL instance.
> For Query Performance Insight to function, data must exist in the Query Store and can take a few minutes to reflect.

:::image type="content" source="../media/8-query-performance.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot showing Long running queries view for MySQL server" lightbox="../media/8-query-performance.jpg":::

### Wait statistics

Wait statistics provides a view of the wait events that occur during the execution of a specific query.
Select the **Wait Statistics** tab to view the corresponding visualizations on waits in the server.

> [!NOTE]
> Wait statistics are meant for troubleshooting query performance issues. By default Wait Statistics is not switched on as it is recommended to be turned on only for troubleshooting purposes.

## Performance Recommendations

The Performance Recommendations feature analyzes workloads across your server to identify indexes with the potential to improve performance.
Open Performance Recommendations from the **Intelligent Performance** section of the menu bar on the Azure portal page for your MySQL server.

> [!NOTE]
> For more information on Database Monitoring, see the **Summary** unit at the end of this training.

## UI monitoring

If you add Application Insights to your page script, you get timings of page loads and AJAX calls, counts, and details of browser exceptions and AJAX failures, also users and session counts. All these metrics can be segmented by page, client OS and browser version, geo location, and other dimensions. You can set alerts on failure counts or slow page loading. And by inserting trace calls in your JavaScript code, you can track how the different features of your web page application are used.
Application Insights can be used with any web pages - you just add a short piece of JavaScript. If your web service is Java, you can use the server-side SDKs with the client-side JavaScript SDK to get an understanding of your app's performance.

> [!NOTE]
> For more information on UI monitoring, see the Summary unit at the end of this training.
