The most common (and most effective) method for tuning T-SQL queries is to evaluate and adjust your indexing strategy. Properly indexed databases perform fewer IOs to return query results, and with fewer IOs there is reduced pressure on both the IO and storage sytstems. Reducing IO even allows for better memory utilization. Keep in mind the read/write ratio of your queries. A heavy write workload may indicate that the cost of writing rows to additional indexes is not of much benefit. An exception would be if the workload performs mainly updates that also need to do lookup operations. Update operations that do lookups can benefit from additional indexes or columns added to an existing indexes. Your goal should always be to get the most benefit out of the smallest number of indexes on your tables.

A common performance tuning approach is as follows:

1. Evaluate existing index usage using sys.dm_db_index_operational_stats and sys.dm_db_index_usage_stats.
2. Consider eliminating unused and duplicate indexes, but this should be done carefully. Some indexes may only be used during monthly/quarterly/annual operations, and may be important for those processes. You may also consider creating indexes to support those operations just before the operations are scheduled, to reduce the overhead of having otherwise unused indexes on a table.
3. Review and evaluate expensive queries from the Query Store, or Extended Events capture, and work to manually craft indexes to better serve those queries.
4. Create the index(s) in a non-production environment, and test query execution and performance and observe performance changes. It is important to note any hardware differences between your production and non-production environments, as the amount of memory and the number of CPUs could impact your execution plan.
5. After testing carefully, implement the changes to your production system.

Verify the column order of your indexes—the leading column drives column statistics and usually determines whether the optimizer will choose the index. Ideally, the leading column will be selective and used in the WHERE clause of many of your queries. Consider using a change control process for tracking changes that could impact application performance. Finally, before dropping an index, save the code in your source control, so the index can be quickly recreated in the event that an infrequently run query requires the index to perform well.
