In this exercise, you explore all the key features of Microsoft Copilot in Microsoft Defender XDR.

> [!NOTE]
> The environment for this exercise is based on a simulation, generated from pre-determined screen captures of the actual product. As a limited simulation, links on a page may not be enabled and text-based inputs that fall outside of the specified script are not be supported.
### Exercise

For this exercise you're logged in as Avery Howard and have the Copilot owner role.  For all the tasks in this exercise, you'll work in the Microsoft Defender portal and access the embedded Copilot capabilities of Defender XDR.

> [!NOTE]
> When a lab instruction calls for opening a link to the simulated environment, it is generally recommended that you open the link in a new browser window so that you can simultaneously view the instructions and the exercise environment. To do so, select the right mouse key and select the option.

#### Task: Explore Incident summary and guided resposnes

1. Open the simulated environment by selecting this link: **[Microsoft Defender portal]()**.

1. From the Microsoft Defender portal, expand **Incidents & alerts** then select **Incidents**.
1. In the search field, enter incident ID **30342**, named Human-operated ransomware attack was launched from a compromised asset (attack disruption). then select it to open the incident, and open it.  

1. This is a complex incident.  Defender XDR provides a great deal of information, but with 72 alerts it can be a challenge to know where to focus. On the right side of the incident page, Copilot automatically generates an **Incident summary** that helps guide your focus and response.
    1. Copilot's summary describes how this incident has evolved, from initial access to lateral movement, and exfiltration.  It identifies specific devices, and indicates that the PsExec tool was used to launch executable files.  Copilot also names the threat actor involved in the incident.
    1. These are all items you can leverage for further investigation. You'll explore some of these in subsequent tasks.

1. Scroll down on the Copilot panel and just beneath the summary are **Guided responses**.  Guided responses recommend actions in support of triage, containment, investigation, and remediation.
    1. The first item in the triage category it to Classify this incident.  Select **Classify** to view the options.  Review the guided responses in the other categories.
    1. Select the **Status** button and filter on **Completed**.  Two completed activities show labeled as Attack Disruption.  Automatic attack disruption is designed to contain attacks in progress, limit the impact on an organization's assets, and provide more time for security teams to remediate the attack fully. To learn more, visit [Automatic attack disruption in Microsoft Defender XDR](/defender-xdr/automatic-attack-disruption).

1. Keep the incident page open, you'll use it in the next task.

#### Task:  Explore device and identity summary

1. From the incident page, select the first alert **Suspicious URL clicked**.

1. Copilot  automatically generates an alert summary, which provides a wealth of information for further analysis. For example, the summary identifies a malicious file Rubeus.exe, it identifies data collection activities, reconnaissance and discovery activities, and more.

1. There is a lot of information on the page, so to get a better view of this alert, select **Open alert page**.  It's on the third panel of the page, next to the incident graph and below the alert title.

1. On the top of the page, is card for the device parkcity-win10v.  Select the ellipses and note the options. Select **Summarize**.  Copilot generates a device summary.  Its worth nothing that there are many ways you can access device summary and this is just one convenient method.  The summary shows the device is a VM, identifies the owner of the device, it shows its compliance status against Intune policies, and more.

1. Next to the device card is a card for the owner of the device. Select **parkcity\jonaw**.  The third panel on the page updates from showing details of the alert to providing information about the user Jonathan Wolcott, an account executive, whose Entra ID risk and Insider risk severity are classified as high. These are'nt surprising given what you've learned from the Copilot incident and alert summaries.  Select **Summarize**, displayed underneath the user's name to obtain an identity summary generated by Copilot.

1. Keep the alert page open, you'll use it in the next task.

#### Task:  Explore script analysis

1. Let's Focus on the alert story. Select **Maximize** to get a better view of the process tree. Optionally, select **Expand all**. From maximized view, you begin to get a clearer view of how this incident came to be. Many line items indicate that powershell.exe executed a script.  Since the user Jonathan Wolcott is an account executive, its reasonable to assume that executing powershell scripts is not something this user is likely to be doing on a regular basis.

1. Expand the first instance of **powershell.exe execute a script**, its the one showing the timestamp of 4:57:11 AM. Copilot has the capability to analyze scripts.  Select **Analyze**.
    1. Copilot generates an analysis of the script and suggests it could be a phishing attempt or used to deliver a web-based exploit.
    1. Select **Show code**.  The code shows a defanged URL.
    1. Expand the line item that follows, labeled **powershell.exe opened the HTTP link...**. Defender XDR provides a link to the Mitre technique employed. Select **T1204.001: Malicious Link** to review information about this Mitre technique.

1. There are several other items items that indicate powershell.exe executed a script. Expand the one labeled **powershell.exe -EncodedCommand...** with the timestamp 5:00:47 AM.  The original script was base 64 encoded, but defender has decoded that for you. For the decoded version, select **Analyze**.  The analysis highlights the sophistication of the script used in this attack.

1. Close the alert story page by selecting the **X** (the X that is to the left of Copilot panel). Now use the breadcrumb to return to the incident.  Select **Human-operated ransomware attack was launched from a compromised asset (attack disruption)**.

#### Task:  Explore file analysis

1. You are back at the incident page.  In the alert summary, Copilot identified the file Rubeus.exe, which is associated with the 'Kekeo' malware. You can use the file analysis capability in Defender XDR to see what other insights you can get.  There are several ways to access files.  From the top of the page select the **Evidence and Response** tab.

1. From the left side of the screen select **Files**.
1. Scroll down until you see **Rubues.exe**, then select it.  
1. From the windows opens, select **Analyze**.  Copilot generates a summary.


#### Pivot to the standalone experience

1. Return to the incident page by selecting teh **Attack story** tab from the top of the page.

1. 