:::image type="content" border="true" source="../media/surface-pro-13-intel-render.png" alt-text="Image of Surface Pro render in black with Pro Flex Keyboard detached and Pen left facing view.":::

Microsoft Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) is a Copilot+ PC built by Microsoft that is designed specifically for business users. As a laptop-to-tablet hybrid device, it offers the portability of a tablet and the advanced power of a laptop. Combining software, hardware, and AI features, Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) allows you to complete your daily tasks through various interaction methods. Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) enables business users to execute their tasks with hardware and software advancements through various inputs.

## Hardware

Imagine you're a small business owner who needs a device that offers you the opportunity to get work done from any location. Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) offers hardware that helps you accomplish your tasks from anywhere. Let's look at some of the device specifications that address these needs without adding complexity to your work.

- **Intel Core Ultra (Series 2) Processors:** Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) features the Intel Core Ultra 200V series of processors, which are built to boost efficiency across workloads and applications. They deliver 40+ TOPS (trillions of operations per second) with a dedicated NPU (neural processing unit)—enabling AI features while delivering outstanding performance on x86 architecture. Rearchitected P-cores run priority tasks and workloads with optimized power efficiency thanks to AI-based power management. While next-generation E-cores handle lower priority tasks that require less power, the result is a powerful and battery efficient device that capably executes business processes and applications.
- **13" PixelSense Flow Display:** Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) features a 13" anti-reflective display with PixelSense technology, offering touch input in addition to using peripherals and attachable accessories—like the Surface Pro Flex Keyboard and Surface Slim Pen (2nd Edition). It also features a 3:2 aspect ratio with a 2880x1920 resolution, ideal for viewing and interacting with vertical content—displaying more data in Microsoft Office applications. The display features a dynamic refresh rate of up to 120 Hz, reaching 600 nits of maximum brightness, allowing for a smoother scrolling and app switching experience.
- **Ports and charging:** As a business user looking to get work done from anywhere, port selection is crucial. Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) features two USB-C ports with USB4® functionality—offering support for charging and data transfer, DisplayPort 2.1 for up to two 4K monitors, and USB docks. Charging can be done via USB-C or the Surface Connect port—both support fast charging at 60 W.
- **Typing experience:** With the optional Surface Pro Flex Keyboard, you can turn your Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) into a full Windows laptop experience. The keyboard snaps magnetically to the bottom of the device and features a storage slot for Surface Slim Pen (2nd Edition). It also features a Copilot key—enabling quick access to AI experiences.
- **NFC:** Near Field Communication (NFC) is designed to enhance security and convenience for users. It facilitates Microsoft Entra ID and Microsoft Account (MSA) authentication via FIDO 2.0 standards, enabling secure access and sign-in. Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) features an NFC antenna—located in the upper left corner of the top bezel, under the display. With NFC, you can securely authenticate your device, log in securely to critical applications, and enable multifactor authentication (MFA) for sensitive accounts.

## Software

:::image type="content" border="true" source="../media/surface-pro-monitor.png" alt-text="Image of one person sitting at desk, looking at Surface Pro.":::

In our scenario, you're a small business owner looking to get work done from multiple locations. On-device Copilot+ PC AI features on Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) help to accomplish more tasks efficiently.

- **Click to Do:** This feature identifies text and images on your screen, analyzes them, and provides actionable context-sensitive options that you can select based on the content. Click to Do identifies only the presence of text and images—not their actual content—and performs all processing locally on the device.
- **Recall (preview):** Enabling you to quickly find and jump back into what you have seen before on your PC, Recall (preview) is a powerful productivity tool that provides an explorable timeline to find content you previously had opened. Powered by semantic search, describe how you remember something that was open and Recall (preview) will retrieve the moment you saw it. Recall (preview) can find photos, files, links, or messages as a fresh point to start from.
- **Restyle Image:** An exclusive addition to the Photos app on Copilot+ PCs, Restyle Image allows you to reimagine your photos with AI tools. With Restyle Image, you can add original, contextual AI-generated styles to your photos, by either choosing one of the prebuilt style options and adjusting the creativity level, or by creating your own custom style using a text description.

## Security

Security is a top priority for IT teams and small business owners. Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) delivers chip-to-cloud security.

- **Secured-core PC:** Windows integrates closely with Surface hardware to deliver protections that take advantage of hardware capabilities. As a Secured-core PC, Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) uses TPM 2.0 for a hardware root of trust, secure boot, and BitLocker drive encryption. This hardware provides protection that's useful against sophisticated attacks and can provide increased assurance when handling mission-critical data in data-sensitive industries.
- **Microsoft Pluton:** Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) features the Microsoft Pluton security processor—a hardware-based security chip that's integrated directly into the CPU (Central Processing Unit). Microsoft Pluton provides hardware-based root of trust, secure identity, secure attestation, and cryptographic services. Pluton technology is a combination of a secure subsystem, which is part of the System on Chip (SoC), and Microsoft-authored software that runs on this integrated secure subsystem.
- **Device Firmware Configuration Interface (DFCI):** Designed to be used with software-level mobile device management (MDM), DFCI enables IT admins to remotely disable specific hardware components and prevent end users from accessing them. For example, if you need to protect sensitive information in highly secure areas, you can disable the camera, and if you don't want users booting from USB drives, you can disable that as well.

**Windows Autopilot:** Deploying Surface Pro 13-inch (Intel) is simplified for IT teams with Windows Autopilot. This feature simplifies the Windows device lifecycle, for both IT and end users, from initial deployment to end of life. Autopilot streamlines IT deployment processes, minimizes infrastructure maintenance requirements, and enhances usability for end users.
