Add new users or delete existing users from your Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant. To **add** or **delete** users, you must be a **User Administrator** or **Global Administrator**.

## Add a new user

You can create a new user for your organization or invite an external user from the same starting point.

1. Sign in to the **Azure portal** in the User Administrator role.
1. Navigate to **Azure Active Directory** &gt; **Users**.
1. Select either **Create new user** or **Invite external user** from the menu.

:::image type="content" source="../media/azure-active-directory-users-page-8859e1b1.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Azure Active Directory Users Page.":::
<br>

1. On the **New User** page, provide the new user's information:
    
    
     -  **Identity**: Add a user name and display name for the user. **User name** and **Name** are required and can't contain accent characters. You can also add a first and last name.
        
        The domain part of the user name must use either the initial default domain name, **&lt;yourdomainname&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**, or a custom domain name, such as **contoso.com**.
     -  **Groups and roles**: Optional. Add the user to one or more existing groups. Group membership can be set at any time.
     -  **Settings**: Optional. Toggle the option to block sign-in for the user or set the user's default location.
     -  **Job info**: Optional. Add the user's job title, department, company name, and manager. These details can be updated at any time.
1. Copy the autogenerated password provided in the **Password** box. You'll need to give this password to the user to sign in for the first time.
1. Select **Create**.

The user is created and added to your Azure AD organization.
