
Microsoft Defender XDR, formerly Microsoft 365 Defender, is an enterprise defense suite that protects against sophisticated cyberattacks. Microsoft Defender XDR allows admins to assess threat signals from endpoints, applications, email, and identities to determine an attack's scope and impact. It gives greater insight into how the threat occurred, and what systems have been affected. Microsoft Defender XDR can then take automated action to prevent or stop the attack.

The Microsoft Defender XDR suite protects:

- **Endpoints with Microsoft Defender for Endpoint** - Microsoft Defender for Endpoint is a unified endpoint platform for preventative protection, post-breach detection, automated investigation, and response.
- **Assets with Defender Vulnerability Management** - Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management delivers continuous asset visibility, intelligent risk-based assessments, and built-in remediation tools to help your security and IT teams prioritize and address critical vulnerabilities and misconfigurations across your organization.
- **Email and collaboration with Microsoft Defender for Office 365** - Defender for Office 365 safeguards your organization against malicious threats posed by email messages, links (URLs), and collaboration tools.
- **Identities with Microsoft Defender for Identity** - Microsoft Defender for Identity uses Active Directory signals to identify, detect, and investigate advanced threats, compromised identities, and malicious insider actions directed at your organization.
- **Applications with Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps** - Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps is a comprehensive cross-SaaS solution that brings deep visibility, strong data controls, and enhanced threat protection to your cloud apps.
- **Cloud workloads and applications with Defender for Cloud** - Microsoft Defender for Cloud is a cloud-native application protection platform (CNAPP) combining capabilities of a development security operations (DevSecOps), a cloud security posture (CPSM), and a cloud workload protection platform (CWPP) to protect cloud-based applications from threats and vulnerabilities. Originally accessible through Azure, Security teams can now access Defender for Cloud alerts and incidents within the Microsoft Defender portal, providing richer context to investigations that span cloud resources, devices, and identities. Microsoft Defender for Cloud is covered in more detail in the module, [Describe the security management capabilities in Azure](/training/modules/describe-security-management-capabilities-of-azure/)

The Microsoft Defender XDR suite also includes **Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence**. Microsoft Defender TI aggregates and enriches critical threat information to help security analyst triage, incident response, threat hunting, and vulnerability management workflows

The information and insights surfaced by the Microsoft Defender XDR suite of solutions are centralized in the Microsoft Defender portal, together with Microsoft Sentinel, Microsoft Defender for Cloud incidents and alerts, and so much more. The Microsoft Defender portal delivers a unified security operations platform.

A unified security operations platform is a fully integrated toolset for security teams to prevent, detect, investigate, and respond to threats across their entire environment. For Microsoft, this means delivering the best of SIEM, XDR, posture management, and threat intelligence with advanced generative AI as a single platform.
