learn-pr/wwl-sci/describe-threat-protection-with-microsoft-365-defender/includes/6-describe-defender-identity.md, before:


Microsoft Defender for Identity is a cloud-based security solution. It uses your on-premises Active Directory data (called signals) to identify, detect, and investigate advanced threats, compromised identities, and malicious insider actions directed at your organization. 

Microsoft Defender for Identity provides security professionals managing hybrid environments functionality to:

- Monitor users, entity behavior, and activities with learning-based analytics.
- Protect user identities and credentials stored in Active Directory
- Identify and investigate suspicious activities and advanced attacks across the cyberattack kill-chain.
- Provide clear incident information on a simple timeline for fast triage

### Monitor and analyze user behavior and activities

Defender for Identity monitors and analyzes user activities and information across your network, including permissions and group membership, creating a behavioral baseline for each user. Defender for Identity then identifies anomalies with adaptive built-in intelligence. It gives insights into suspicious activities and events, revealing the advanced threats, compromised users, and insider threats facing your organization.

### Protect user identities and credentials stored in Active Directory

Defender for Identity provides insights on identity configurations and suggested security best practices. Through security reports and user profile analytics, Defender for Identity helps reduce your organizational attack surface, making it harder to compromise user credentials and advance an attack.

Defender for Identity security reports, help identify users and devices that authenticate using clear-text passwords. It also provides extra insights into how to improve security posture and policies.

For hybrid environments in which Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) is present, Defender for Identity protects the AD FS by detecting on-premises attacks and providing visibility into authentication events generated by the AD FS.

### Identify suspicious activities and advanced attacks across the cyberattack kill-chain

Typically, attacks are launched against any accessible entity, such as a low-privileged user. Attacks then quickly move laterally until the attacker accesses valuable assets. These assets might include sensitive accounts, domain administrators, and highly sensitive data. Defender for Identity identifies these advanced threats at the source throughout the entire cyberattack kill-chain:

- Reconnaissance - Identify rogue users and attackers' attempts to gain information.
- Compromised credentials - Identify attempts to compromise user credentials using brute force attacks, failed authentications, user group membership changes, and other methods.
- Lateral movements - Detect attempts to move laterally inside the network to gain further control of sensitive users.
- Domain dominance - Highlighting attacker behavior if domain dominance is achieved, through remote code execution on the domain controller or other methods.

### Provide clear incident information on a simple timeline for fast triage

Defender for Identity is designed to reduce general alert noise, providing only relevant, important security alerts in a simple, real-time organizational attack timeline.

Use the Defender for Identity attack timeline view and the intelligence of smart analytics to stay focused on what matters. Also, you can use Defender for Identity to quickly investigate threats, and gain insights across the organization for users, devices, and network resources.

Microsoft Defender for Identity protects your organization from compromised identities, advanced threats, and malicious insider actions.

Commit message:

content updates-image for defender for identity

learn-pr/wwl-sci/describe-threat-protection-with-microsoft-365-defender/includes/6-describe-defender-identity.md, after:


Microsoft Defender for Identity is a cloud-based security solution. It uses your on-premises Active Directory data (called signals) to identify, detect, and investigate advanced threats, compromised identities, and malicious insider actions directed at your organization. 

Microsoft Defender for Identity provides security professionals managing hybrid environments functionality to:

- Monitor users, entity behavior, and activities with learning-based analytics.
- Protect user identities and credentials stored in Active Directory
- Identify and investigate suspicious activities and advanced attacks across the cyberattack kill-chain.
- Provide clear incident information on a simple timeline for fast triage

### Monitor and analyze user behavior and activities

Defender for Identity monitors and analyzes user activities and information across your network, including permissions and group membership, creating a behavioral baseline for each user. Defender for Identity then identifies anomalies with adaptive built-in intelligence. It gives insights into suspicious activities and events, revealing the advanced threats, compromised users, and insider threats facing your organization.

### Protect user identities and credentials stored in Active Directory

Defender for Identity provides insights on identity configurations and suggested security best practices. Through security reports and user profile analytics, Defender for Identity helps reduce your organizational attack surface, making it harder to compromise user credentials and advance an attack.

Defender for Identity security reports, help identify users and devices that authenticate using clear-text passwords. It also provides extra insights into how to improve security posture and policies.

For hybrid environments in which Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) is present, Defender for Identity protects the AD FS by detecting on-premises attacks and providing visibility into authentication events generated by the AD FS.

### Identify suspicious activities and advanced attacks across the cyberattack kill-chain

Typically, attacks are launched against any accessible entity, such as a low-privileged user. Attacks then quickly move laterally until the attacker accesses valuable assets. These assets might include sensitive accounts, domain administrators, and highly sensitive data. Defender for Identity identifies these advanced threats at the source throughout the entire cyberattack kill-chain:

- Reconnaissance - Identify rogue users and attackers' attempts to gain information.
- Compromised credentials - Identify attempts to compromise user credentials using brute force attacks, failed authentications, user group membership changes, and other methods.
- Lateral movements - Detect attempts to move laterally inside the network to gain further control of sensitive users.
- Domain dominance - Highlighting attacker behavior if domain dominance is achieved, through remote code execution on the domain controller or other methods.

### Investigate alerts and user activities

Defender for Identity is designed to reduce general alert noise, providing only relevant, important security alerts in a simple, real-time organizational attack timeline.

Use the Defender for Identity attack timeline view and the intelligence of smart analytics to stay focused on what matters. Also, you can use Defender for Identity to quickly investigate threats, and gain insights across the organization for users, devices, and network resources.

Microsoft Defender for Identity protects your organization from compromised identities, advanced threats, and malicious insider actions.

:::image type="content" source="../media/defender-identity-topology-inline.png" lightbox="../media/defender-identity-topology-expanded.png" alt-text="A topology diagram for Defender for Identity. It shows a domain controller and AD FS sending signals to Defender for Identity. Defender for Identity is sending and receiving signals from  Microsoft 365 Defender which gets signals from endpoints, Office 365, and cloud apps.":::
