In this unit, we'll analyze the criteria that experts employ when deciding which IoT service to use for a given business need. Understanding the criteria can also help you better understand the nuanced differences between each product.

## Is it critical to ensure that the device is not compromised?

While no manufacturer or customer wants their devices to be maliciously compromised and used for nefarious purposes, it's more critical to ensure the integrity of an ATM than, say, a washing machine. When security is a critical consideration in your product's design, the best product option is Azure Sphere, which provides a comprehensive end-to-end solution for IoT devices. As we covered in the previous unit, Azure Sphere ensures a secure channel of communication between the device and Azure by controlling everything from the hardware to the operating system to the authentication process, ensuring that the integrity of the device is uncompromised. Once a secure channel is established, messages can be received from the device securely, and messages or software updates can be sent to the device remotely.

## Do I need a dashboard for reporting and management?

The next decision will be the level of services you require from your IoT solution.  If you merely want to connect to your remote devices to receive telemetry and occasionally push updates, and do not need any reporting capabilities, then you may prefer to just implement IoT Hub by itself.  Your programmers can still create a customized set of management tools and reports using IoT Hub's RESTful API.

However, if you want a pre-built customizable user interface that allows you to view and control your devices remotely, whether individually or all your devices, and set up alerts for certain conditions like a device failure, then you might prefer to start with IoT Central. IoT Central integrates with many different Azure products, including IoT Hub, to create a dashboard with reports and management features.  The dashboard is based on starter templates for common industry and usage scenarios.  You can use the dashboard generated by the starter template as-is or customize to suit your needs.