After you view the created form, you might notice that the formatting isn't the same as the rest of our page. We're using [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/getting-started/introduction/?azure-portal=true), and the form currently isn't. Fortunately, there's a library that can ensure our forms use Bootstrap too.

## The django-crispy-forms library

The [django-crispy-forms](https://django-crispy-forms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?azure-portal=true) library further enhances how forms are generated by Django. We're going to explore how we can use the library to ensure our forms use Bootstrap.

## Install the library

As with any Python library, we install **django-crispy-forms** by using [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/).

1. Inside Visual Studio Code, open **requirements.txt**.
1. At the bottom of the file, add a **new line** that reads:

    ```text
    django-crispy-forms
    ```

1. Open a new **terminal** window by selecting **Terminal** > **New Terminal**.
1. Install all packages by running the following command:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Register the app in Django and configure the template

Anything Django uses must be registered as an app or middleware. Because django-crispy-forms is an app, we'll list it in the `INSTALLED_APPS` list.

1. Inside Visual Studio Code, open **project/settings.py**.
1. Underneath the line that reads `# TODO: Register crispy_forms`, add the following code to register django-crispy-forms.

    ```python
    # TODO: Register crispy_forms
    'crispy_forms',
    ```

1. Underneath the line that reads `# TODO: Set template_pack`, add the following code to configure django-crispy-forms to use Bootstrap 4.

    ```python
    # TODO: Set template_pack
    CRISPY_TEMPLATE_PACK = 'bootstrap4'
    ```

## Update our template to use django-crispy-forms

The bulk of the amazing work that django-crispy-forms does is by using a filter. A filter allows you to take a variable in a template and pass it into another handler or process. In our case, the `crispy` filter will convert our form to the specified template, Bootstrap 4.

1. Inside Visual Studio Code, open **dog_shelters/templates/dog_form.html**.
1. Underneath the line that reads `{# TODO: Load crispy_forms_tags #}`, add the following code to load the filter or tag.

    ```html
    {# TODO: Load crispy_forms_tags #}
    {% load crispy_forms_tags %}
    ```

1. Replace the line that reads `{{ form.as_p }}` with the following code to use the `crispy` filter.

    ```html
    {{ form | crispy }}
    ```

## Test the site

With everything installed and updated, let's test our site.

1. Save all files by selecting **File** > **Save All**.
1. In your browser, go to `http://localhost:8000/dog/register`.

   You'll see the page is now using Bootstrap for the form.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/dog-register-bootstrap.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the form that uses Bootstrap.":::

You've now updated your application so that the form uses Bootstrap.
