learn-pr/wwl-data-ai/get-tips-tricks-for-teaching-dp-100-designing-implementing-data-science-solution/includes/4-explore-best-practices-dp-100-learning-path-1.md, before:



DP-100: Learning Path 1 Design a machine learning solution

Learning Path 1 Overview

As you begin to teach this learning path, get familiar with what the students will learn during the learning path. In this learning path students will learn about designing a machine learning solution including an overview of the entire machine learning process, general concepts, how to design the various aspects of machine learning projects. Students will also learn about designing a data ingestion strategy, a machine learning model training solution, and designing a modern deployment solution.

This Learning Path consists of three modules:

- Module 1 – Design a data ingestion strategy for machine learning projects
- Module 2 – Design a machine learning model training solution
- Module 3 – Design a model deployment solution

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RW14QwW]

Learning Path 1 Tips and Tricks

- Be concise for each area, they will be discussed more in later learning paths
- Leverage the mentioned links
- Use the interactive case study-based activity
- Keep the discussion high level

Learning Path 1 Demos (optional)

- Open and show a customer success story on Azure Machine Learning
- Open the Azure portal and point to data storage options

Learning Path 1 Labs

- [Lab 1.1: Design a data ingestion strategy](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-aml-design/Instructions/start-01-data.html)
- [Lab 1.2: Design a model training strategy](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-aml-design/Instructions/start-02-training.html)
- Import solution (optional)

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[db67e773-03eb-46af-9f32-b544301b2b4f] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-data-ai/get-tips-tricks-for-teaching-dp-100-designing-implementing-data-science-solution/includes/4-explore-best-practices-dp-100-learning-path-1.md, after:




DP-100: Learning path 1 Design a machine learning solution

Learning path 1 Overview

As you begin to teach this learning path, get familiar with what the students learn during the learning path. In this learning path student learn about designing a machine learning solution including an overview of the entire machine learning process, general concepts, how to design the various aspects of machine learning projects. Students will also learn about designing a data ingestion strategy, a machine learning model training solution, and designing a modern deployment solution.

This learning path consists of five focus areas:

- Identify your data source and format
- Design a data ingestion solution
- Identify machine learning tasks
- Choose a service to train a model
- Choose between compute options
- Decide whether to deploy your model to a real-time or batch endpoint


> [!VIDEO https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=a78f688e-af1f-4e96-886f-8564e55c1fd9]

Learning Path 1 Tips and Tricks

- Be concise for each area. They'll be discussed more in later learning paths
- Leverage the mentioned links
- Use the interactive case study-based activity
- Keep the discussion high level

Learning Path 1 Demos (optional)

- Open and show a customer success story on Azure Machine Learning
- Open the Azure portal and point to data storage options

Learning Path 1 Labs

- [Lab 1.1: Design a data ingestion strategy](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-aml-design/Instructions/start-01-data.html)
- [Lab 1.2: Design a model training strategy](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-aml-design/Instructions/start-02-training.html)
- Import solution (optional)
