learn-pr/wwl-data-ai/get-tips-tricks-for-teaching-dp-100-designing-implementing-data-science-solution/includes/8-explore-best-practices-dp-100-learning-path-5.md, before:



DP-100: Learning Path 5 Use no-code machine learning with the Azure Machine Learning designer

Learning Path 5 Overview

As you begin to teach this learning path, get familiar with what the students will learn during the learning path. In this learning path students will learn about using no-code machine learning, the Azure Machine Learning designer.

This learning path consists of two modules:

- Module 1 – Explore data with the Azure Machine Learning designer
- Module 2 – Train and compare models with the Azure Machine Learning designer

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RW14vIj]

Learning Path 5 Tips and Tricks

- Describe a story to illustrate the importance of clean data
- This is a revisit to Azure Machine Learning designer that was explained earlier in learning path 2
- Explain some of the built-in components

Learning Path 5 Demos (optional)

- Define a workflow on Azure Machine Learning designer
- Show the built-in components and custom component capability

Learning Path 5 Lab

- [Lab 5.1: Train a model with the Azure Machine Learning designer](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-azure-ml/Instructions/05-Designer-train-model.html)

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[db67e773-03eb-46af-9f32-b544301b2b4f] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-data-ai/get-tips-tricks-for-teaching-dp-100-designing-implementing-data-science-solution/includes/8-explore-best-practices-dp-100-learning-path-5.md, after:




DP-100: Learning path 5 Find the best model with Automated Machine Learning

Learning path 5 Overview

As you begin to teach this learning path, get familiar with what the students will learn during the learning path. In this learning path students will learn about automated machine learning and how to use it to train, evaluate, and deploy machine learning models without writing any code.

This learning path consists of four focus areas:

- Explore Automate Machine Learning
- Find the best classification model with Automated Machine Learning
- Emphasize when to use AutoML 
- Make learners aware that AutoML supports supervised learning techniques


> [!VIDEO https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=c8db93c4-5df9-411a-8b92-b1002276a3a9]

Learning path 5 Tips and Tricks

- Use a poll to ask if there are citizen data scientists in the learners group
- Emphasize the importance and efficiency of AutoML
- Discuss various supported tasks
- Review the best model in Azure Machine Learning studio

Learning path 5 Demos (optional)

- Configure and set an AutoML classification task with the Python SDK 
- Show the various configuration and featurization options


Learning Path 5 Lab

- [Lab 5.1: Find the best classification model with Automated Machine Learning](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-azure-ml/Instructions/06-AutoML-classification-model.html)
