learn-pr/wwl-data-ai/get-tips-tricks-for-teaching-dp-100-designing-implementing-data-science-solution/includes/9-explore-best-practices-dp-100-learning-path-6.md, before:



DP-100: Learning Path 6 Find the best model with Automated Machine Learning

Learning Path 6 Overview

As you begin to teach this learning path, get familiar with what the students will learn during the learning path. In this learning path students will learn about automated machine learning and how to use it to train, evaluate, and deploy machine learning models without writing any code.

This learning path consists of two modules:

- Module 1 – Explore Automate Machine Learning
- Module 2 – Find the best classification model with Automated Machine Learning

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RW14Duy]

Learning Path 6 Tips and Tricks

- Use a poll to ask if there are citizen data scientists in the learners group
- Emphasize the importance and efficiency of AutoML
- Discuss various supported tasks
- Review the best model in Azure Machine Learning studio

Learning Path 6 Demos (optional)

- Configure and set an AutoML classification task with the Python SDK 
- Show the various configuration and featurization options

Learning Path 6 Lab

- [Lab 6.1: Find the best classification model with Automated Machine Learning](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/PL-200-Power-Platform-Functional-Consultant/Instructions/Labs/LAB%5BPL-200%5D_M06L01_Cloud_flows.html)

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[db67e773-03eb-46af-9f32-b544301b2b4f] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-data-ai/get-tips-tricks-for-teaching-dp-100-designing-implementing-data-science-solution/includes/9-explore-best-practices-dp-100-learning-path-6.md, after:




DP-100: Learning Path 6 Track model training in Jupyter notebooks with MLflow

Learning Path 6 Overview

As you begin to teach this learning path, get familiar with what the students will learn during the learning path. In this learning path students will learn about tracking model training in Jupyter notebooks with MLflow and how to use MLflow for tracking models and experimenting in Jupyter notebooks.

This learning path consists of four focus areas:

- Mlflow overview
- Configure and use Mlflow in notebooks
- Track model training in notebooks with MLflow 
- Mlflow logging methods

> [!VIDEO https://learn-video.azurefd.net/vod/player?id=d522c542-19bb-4909-9c43-52563dd0aaef]

Learning Path 6 Tips and Tricks

- Describe an Mlflow solution overview with a good architecture diagram
- Revisit the full iterative process to show model choice process in more details
- Provide a code walk-through for classes, objects, and methods necessary

Learning Path 6 Demos (optional)

- Discuss the experiment 
- Logging an artifact and revisiting it in Azure Machine Learning UI

Learning Path 6 Lab

- [Lab 6.1: Track model training in notebooks with MLflow](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-azure-ml/Instructions/07-Notebooks-mlflow-tracking.html)
