There are many size options for Azure Virtual Machines. For SQL Server workloads the main characteristics to look for are the amount of memory available, and the number of IOPs the virtual machine can perform. Azure has an option of using constrained core virtual machines, which can be useful for the following reason. Typically Azure will use a fixed ratio of CPU cores to memory and SQL Server is licensed by the core. You may have workloads that require large amounts of memory, but not require the number of CPUs allocated to get that amount of memory. With constrained cores, you have the option of not utilizing all the virtual machines cores while still getting the full amount of memory. There is no cost difference for constrained core virtual machines; you are using pay as you go licensing for your virtual machine workloads.

Most SQL Server production workloads will run on the general purpose or memory-optimized families of Azure Virtual Machines. Larger workloads requiring more memory and/or CPU resources will land in memory-optimized virtual machines, but many production applications can run comfortably on general purpose virtual machines. Another dimension to evaluate when sizing your virtual machine is the number of IOPs the virtual machine supports. This value is the upper limit of IOPs that your virtual machine will perform regardless of its storage configuration.

Azure supports resizing your virtual machine. This operation does require a restart; however, restarting a virtual machine is typically a fast process. In some cases, depending on what virtual machine type you are switching to and from, you may need to deallocate your virtual machine and then resize. This operation does extend the duration of the outage but should not take more than a few minutes.
