
Many businesses are striving to reduce their carbon emissions and meet other sustainability goals.

Microsoft Azure is more energy-efficient and less carbon-intensive than traditional IT systems, so by switching to Azure you’ll be furthering those goals at your business.

## Greater Energy Efficiency and Lower Emissions

A [recent study](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=56950) found that businesses that switched to Microsoft Azure saw energy efficiency improvements in their computing operations of up to 93 percent. After factoring in Microsoft’s usage of zero-carbon electricity, carbon emissions reductions can reach as high as 98 percent.

Azure’s energy efficiency derives from four factors:

 -  **Operational efficiency**. Azure pools together many businesses’ IT operations at its datacenters, which allows it to efficiently manage activity in ways that the businesses couldn't if they were maintaining their IT independently.
 -  **Equipment efficiency**. Microsoft works directly with its suppliers to design equipment specially made for cloud computing operations. The study showed that this specialized hardware can be more than 10 percent more energy-efficient than standard IT equipment.
 -  **Datacenter efficiency**. Microsoft datacenters that host Azure are more energy-efficient at datacenter-specific tasks, such as cooling and lighting, than typical datacenters.
 -  **Renewable electricity**. The electricity used by these efficient operations is increasingly generated by renewable sources such as solar, wind, and hydropower. Microsoft will shift to 100 percent renewable energy supply by 2025 – meaning that all of our operations will either use renewable energy or have their emissions offset by purchases of clean energy certificates.

When you subscribe to Microsoft Azure, your operations will benefit from these efficiency improvements and emissions reductions, and you’ll be closer to meeting your sustainability goals.

In addition to improving our energy efficiency, Microsoft aims to be water-positive (replenishing more water than we consume) by 2030, zero-waste by that same year, and have net-zero deforestation. For more information, see the [Azure sustainability site](https://azure.microsoft.com/explore/global-infrastructure/sustainability/#overview).

## Sustainability Tools

When using Microsoft Azure, you can access specialized tools to track your sustainability goals.

 -  An [Emissions Impact Dashboard](https://www.microsoft.com/sustainability/emissions-impact-dashboard?rtc=1&activetab=pivot:mostpopulartab) enables you to track the carbon emissions (and reductions) of your cloud investments.
 -  The [Emissions Savings Estimator](https://gw.us-il301.gateway.prod.island.powerapps.com/customerenrollmentservice/estimator/index.html) tool can show you how much you might save in emissions by switching to Azure. (This is a bit tech-oriented!)
 -  The [Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability](/industry/sustainability/) product is a package of tools for monitoring your sustainability in the cloud.
