learn-pr/wwl-sci/explore-basic-services-identity-types/includes/8-summary-resources.md, before:

In this module, you've gained an insight into the features and capabilities of Azure Active Directory. You've seen that Azure AD is Microsoft’s cloud-based identity and access management service, and managing an organization’s employees. It also allows guests and others to sign in and access resources.

You've learned about the different Azure AD editions, and that the free version is included with subscriptions to Office 365, Azure, Dynamics 365, Intune, and Power Platform.

This module also covered Azure AD identity types, including users, service principals, managed identities, and devices.

Finally, you learned about the hybrid model, where all user identities are managed in your on-premises Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) directory, and changes are synchronized to your Azure AD.

## Learn more

For more information on the topics covered in this module, see:

- [What is Azure Active Directory?](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-whatis)
- [Azure Active Directory Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/active-directory/)
- [Azure AD Licenses](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-whatis#what-are-the-azure-ad-licenses)
- [Azure Active Directory Identity Protection](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/identity-protection/overview-identity-protection)
- [Privileged Identity Management](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/privileged-identity-management/pim-getting-started)
- [Azure AD External Identity pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/active-directory/external-identities/)
- [Azure Active Directory External Identities](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/external-identities/compare-with-b2c)
- [Azure Active Directory B2C documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory-b2c/)
- [Managed identities](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)
- [Services that support managed identities for Azure resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/services-support-managed-identities)
- [What is Azure AD Connect?](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/hybrid/whatis-azure-ad-connect)
- [Azure AD registered devices](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/devices/concept-azure-ad-register)
- [Azure AD joined devices](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/devices/concept-azure-ad-join)
- [Hybrid Azure AD joined devices](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/devices/concept-azure-ad-join-hybrid)

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[b8e4f8cb-949b-40c7-9529-b4f642fe31d3] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-sci/explore-basic-services-identity-types/includes/8-summary-resources.md, after:

In this module, you've gained an insight into the features and capabilities of Azure Active Directory.  You've learned about the different Azure AD editions, the identity types supported by Azure AD, and how you can use it to support external users. Finally, you learned about the hybrid model, where all user identities are managed in your on-premises Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) directory, and changes are synchronized to your Azure AD.

Now that you've completed this module, you'll be able to:
- Describe what Azure AD does.
- Describe the identity types that Azure AD supports.

## Learn more

For more information on the topics covered in this module, see:

- [What is Azure Active Directory?](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-whatis)
- [Azure Active Directory Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/active-directory/)
- [Azure AD Licenses](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-whatis#what-are-the-azure-ad-licenses)
- [Azure Active Directory Identity Protection](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/identity-protection/overview-identity-protection)
- [Privileged Identity Management](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/privileged-identity-management/pim-getting-started)
- [Azure AD External Identity pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/active-directory/external-identities/)
- [Azure Active Directory External Identities](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/external-identities/compare-with-b2c)
- [Azure Active Directory B2C documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory-b2c/)
- [Managed identities](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)
- [Services that support managed identities for Azure resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/services-support-managed-identities)
- [What is Azure AD Connect?](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/hybrid/whatis-azure-ad-connect)
- [Azure AD registered devices](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/devices/concept-azure-ad-register)
- [Azure AD joined devices](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/devices/concept-azure-ad-join)
- [Hybrid Azure AD joined devices](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/devices/concept-azure-ad-join-hybrid)
