Microsoft uses extensive protections for the Azure cloud platform and offers a wide range of Azure services to help customers monitor and protect their provisioned cloud resources from attacks. Customers can deploy a range of Azure services to safeguard their applications and data and rely on the mature security and privacy incident management process that's in place.

## Microsoft Graph Security API

Aside from controls implemented by Microsoft to safeguard customer data, government customers deployed in Azure get considerable benefits from security research that Microsoft conducts to protect the cloud platform. Microsoft global threat intelligence is one of the largest in the industry, and it's derived from one of the most diverse sets of threat telemetry sources. It's both the volume and diversity of threat telemetry that makes Microsoft machine-learning algorithms applied to that telemetry so powerful.

:::row:::
:::column span="2":::
The Microsoft [Graph Security API](/graph/security-concept-overview) uses advanced analytics to synthesize large amounts of threat intelligence and security signals from across Microsoft products, services, and partners to combat cyberthreats. Millions of unique threat indicators across the most diverse set of sources are generated every day by Microsoft and its partners, then shared across Microsoft products and services. Across its portfolio of global services, each month Microsoft scans more than 400 billion email messages for phishing and malware, processes 450 billion authentications, executes more than 18 billion page scans, and scans more than 1.2 billion devices for threats. Importantly, this data always goes through strict privacy and compliance boundaries before being used for security analysis.
:::column-end:::
:::column span="2":::
:::image type="complex" source="../media/microsoft-graph-security-api.png" alt-text="Infographic showing Microsoft global threat intelligence is one of the largest in the industry.":::
The infographic shows a diagram of an excerpt of Microsoft global threat intelligence connections. An array of five large bubbles with text inside and various connections indicated by dotted lines to other entities. In the middle is a large bubble with the text" 200+ global cloud consumer and commercial services." Seven dotted lines radiate from the perimeter of this bubble and connect to 1. another large bubble with the text "Botnet data from Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit"; 2. a large bubble with the text "750M+ Azure user accounts"; 3. a large bubble with the text "1.2B devices scanned each month"; 4. a OneDrive icon; 5. an Xbox icon; and 6. and 7. two small gray bubble icons. The bubble with the text "Botnet data from Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit" besides connecting to the bubble with the text "200+ global cloud consumer and commercial services," also connects to a large bubble with the text "Shared threat data from partners, researchers, & law enforcement worldwide," and an undefined connection that goes off the edge of the infographic. The large bubble with the text "750M+ Azure user accounts" besides connecting to the bubble with the text "200+ global cloud consumer and commercial services" also connects to an Azure icon, and a small gray bubble icon. The large bubble with the text "1.2B devices scanned each month" besides connecting to the bubble with the text "200+ global cloud consumer and commercial services" also connects to a small gray bubble icon and an undefined connection that goes off the edge of the infographic.
:::image-end:::
:::column-end:::
:::row-end:::

The Microsoft Graph Security API provides an unparalleled view into the evolving threat landscape and enables rapid innovation to detect and respond to threats. Machine-learning models and AI reason over vast security signals to identify vulnerabilities and threats. The Microsoft Graph Security API provides a common gateway to [share and act on security insights](/graph/security-concept-overview) across the Microsoft platform and partner solutions. Azure customers benefit directly from the Microsoft Graph Security API as Microsoft makes the vast threat telemetry and advanced analytics [available in Microsoft online services](/graph/api/resources/security-api-overview), including Microsoft Defender for Cloud. These services can help customers address their own security requirements in the cloud.

Next, let’s explore data breach notifications.
