Virtual Machine is a software environment that emulates the functionality of a physical hardware system. Virtual Machine can be installed and run on a host hardware to emulate an dedicated hardware to support running multiple OS environment, called as guest OS, on the same physical hardware. It provides the same experience of running a different guest OS without the need for additional hardware to run the system. 

The VM manages the isolation of the resources to avoid any conflicts between the running operating system. VM eliminates the need for physical hardware to run each of the OS and also to avoids system reboots to run any copy of the OS before the VM came into existence. This approach saves the cost of having physical machines each supporting an OS.


Azure VM adds another layer to the VM concept for supporting VMs in the cloud. The user doesn't have to worry about the requirements of the physical machine. They can easily create and run the VM on the cloud. The VM could be configured using web-based interface making it easy to get the system up and running for the user's needs. Azure VM also allows for easy scaling up or scaling down of multiple OS without worrying about administrator or infrastructure costs. The VM system can be monitored online for status/health or tracking any application running on it.

Additionally, Azure supports using IoT Edge automatic deployments to deploy Edge-based workloads on to the VM. This provides the ability to run Azure IoT Edge on a VM using a supported OS that can run containers. It allows the Azure IoT Edge to run on a whole range of hardware, including micro-controller units that run Azure Sphere, with cloud and edge experience power by Azure Stack.

In this module, we create a virtual machine on the cloud which enables to deploy the IoT edge modules.