
Tailwind Traders plans to adopt a hybrid cloud posture. This move will make their environment more complicated than it was when workloads were only deployed on-premises. Also, the security configuration and telemetry of these workloads will be increasingly complex.

In this unit, you’ll learn how Tailwind Traders can monitor the configuration of their on-premises and cloud workloads and be alerted to any suspicious activity. You’ll also learn how Tailwind Traders can streamline updates to their on-premises and cloud server operating systems.

## What is Azure Security Center?

[Microsoft Azure Security Center](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/security-center/security-center-intro) allows you to assess the security configuration of various workloads. You can use Azure Security Center to:

- Implement security best practices across IaaS, platform as a service (PaaS), data, and on-premises resources.
- Track security configuration compliance against regulatory standards.
- Protect data by identifying suspicious activity, such as patterns associated with the exfiltration of data.
- Classify data hosted in SQL databases.

In hybrid environments, Security Center can be integrated with the Log Analytics agent to collect event-log events, event-tracing telemetry, and crash dump files. Security Center can then perform an analysis of that data to make recommendations or generate alerts that can be forwarded to your organization’s Security Incident and Event Management (SIEM) system.

Tailwind Traders currently uses a variety of tools to assess whether the security configuration of their Windows Server and Linux workloads complies with published third-party standards. By adopting Azure Security Center, Tailwind Traders will be able to monitor and remediate the security configuration of their server operating systems on-premises and their growing deployment of workloads in the cloud as they adopt more hybrid technologies.

## What is Azure Sentinel?

[Microsoft Azure Sentinel](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/sentinel) allows organizations with hybrid cloud solutions to ingest telemetry from on-premises and cloud security event logs. Azure Sentinel is both a SIEM and a Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response(SOAR) solution. SIEM solutions store and analyze log data and event telemetry that they ingest from external sources. Azure Sentinel supports the ingestion of data from on-premises, Azure, and third-party cloud locations, including from other SIEM systems. SOAR solutions allow you to orchestrate
analysis of data, assisting you in creating an automated response to known threats. Figure 16 displays a Sentinel hybrid architecture.

:::image type="content" source="../media/image16.png" alt-text=" On-premises workloads and workloads in third party clouds log telemetry is forwarded to Azure Security Center and Azure Sentinel." lightbox="../media/image16.png":::

Figure 16. Azure Sentinel.

Azure Sentinel can perform the following tasks when supporting hybrid environments:

- Collect data across cloud-based and on-premises users, devices, applications, and infrastructure.
- Use AI and deep learning to identify potentially malicious activity in event data.
- Detect threats through analysis of event data based on attack signatures generated by Microsoft’s security research.
- Automate the response to incidents with known characteristics by using security playbooks.

Sentinel includes built-in workbooks that assist in the analysis of data and can provide recommendations for you. This allows you to quickly comprehend suspicious security telemetry instead of sorting through it to try to understand its meaning. You can also import or use custom workbooks based on the experiences of other security researchers who’ve found effective methods of security telemetry analysis that differ from those currently included in Sentinel.

Tailwind Traders currently has an on-premises SIEM system that collects and analyses event-log data from a variety of computers and devices. While this SIEM system was adequate when Tailwind Traders only had an on-premises deployment, adopting Azure Sentinel will allow Tailwind Traders to extend this capacity into their hybrid cloud. It’s also likely that Tailwind Traders will be able to connect their existing SIEM solution to Sentinel. This gives them the benefits of Sentinel’s AI and deep learning without having to substantially modify their existing on-premises configuration.

## What is Azure Update Management?

[Azure Update Management](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/automation/update-management/update-mgmt-overview) allows you to manage the updates to your on-premises and cloud server operating systems by using a single console in the cloud. Update Management works with Microsoft Windows Server workloads and with supported Linux operating system workloads running physically and virtually. Update Management can use Microsoft Update or Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) as a source of updates for Windows Server operating systems. Update Management can also use a public or custom Linux package repository for Linux operating system updates. Update Management allows you to determine which updates are currently missing from enrolled operating systems. The diagram in Figure 17 indicates how Update Management integrates with Azure Automation and Log Analytics workspaces.

:::image type="content" source="../media/image17.png" alt-text="Figure presents a collection of on-premises and Azure VMs connecting to Azure Automation runbooks, log analytics workspaces and Automation Hybrid Worker solutions over TCP port 443 in a hybrid Update Management architecture." lightbox="../media/image17.png":::

Figure 17. Hybrid Update Management.

You can target Update Management update deployments for either Linux or Windows systems, but not both at the same time. When you configure an update deployment, you specify:

- Whether the update deployment targets Windows or Linux computers.
- The specific enrolled servers that you wish to target with the deployment.
- The update classifications that should be installed.
- Whether specific updates should be included or excluded.
- The schedule for the deployment, including whether the deployment should occur periodically.
- Any pre-update and post-update scripts that should be run.
- The maximum maintenance-window length, with the last 20 minutes of the window devoted to system restart.
- Restart options that determine whether the system should restart if required for updates to complete installation.

Tailwind Traders currently uses WSUS and other tools to manage the updates to its on-premises Windows and Linux operating systems. By configuring their on-premises and cloud IaaS VM operating system workloads to connect to Azure Software Update, Tailwind Traders can ensure that all operating systems that host critical workloads are kept up to date.
