learn-pr/windows/build-simple-website/includes/2-project-structure.md, before:

There are different ways to create and manage website projects. Some of these differences depend on the specific tools you have and the preferences of your organization. When creating a website, it's not uncommon for your project structure to change over time as it becomes more complicated. The key is to maintain a semblance of organization, and there are common strategies to help you do this. Large projects often require a higher degree of care and attention so that many people can keep everything organized.

In this unit, you'll create a simple project structure using Visual Studio Code. The project will have three files: an HTML file, a CSS file, and a JavaScript file. You'll also add a Visual Studio Code extension to simplify running the website in your browser.

## Create a new folder for your website

1. Open VS Code.

   When you open Visual Studio Code, the **Welcome** page opens. Notice that you can create a new file or open a folder in the **Start** list.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/vs-code-welcome.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Visual Studio Code Welcome page.":::

   If the **Welcome** page isn't visible, you can display it by selecting **Help > Welcome** on the menu. (Alternatively, you can display the **Welcome** page by opening the **Command Palette** using the keyboard shortcut <kbd>Shift+Ctrl+P</kbd> on a Windows computer or <kbd>Shift+Cmd+P</kbd> on a macOS, or by selecting **View > Command Palette** from the Visual Studio Code menu. When the **Command Palette** displays, enter **>Help: Welcome** in the search field to open the **Welcome** page.)

1. Select **Open folder** in the **Start** list of the **Welcome** page, or select **File > Open Folder** from the Visual Studio Code menu.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/vs-code-open-folder.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Visual Studio Code open folder.":::

   When opening a folder, the operating system has a menu option to create a **New Folder**.

1. Navigate to the location where you want to create the new folder for your website, and select **New Folder**.
 
1. Name the folder **simple-website**, and then select **Select Folder**.

## Create some files

1. Create a new file by selecting **File > New File** from the menu, or by using <kbd>Control+N</kbd> on Windows or <kbd>Command+N</kbd> on macOS.

1. Save the file by selecting <kbd>Control+S</kbd> on Windows, or <kbd>Command+S</kbd> on macOS.
 
1. Enter `index.html` for the file name, and then select **Save**.

1. Repeat the preceding steps to create two more files: `main.css` and `app.js`. When you're finished, in Visual Studio Code Explorer, you see your project folder **SIMPLE-WEBSITE** contains the following file, which comprise your website:

   - index.html
   - main.css
   - app.js

   :::image type="content" source="../media/vs-code-explorer-view.png" alt-text="Screenshot of your files in Visual Studio Code Explorer view.":::

You could build a website by including all of your HTML, CSS styles, and JavaScript code within a single file. However, in this exercise you're using an HTML file for your content and page structure, a CSS file for your presentation and styling, and a JavaScript file for your behaviors and interactivity.

Setting up three files helps keep your website project organized. The separation of content, styles, and logic is an example of *progressive enhancement*. If JavaScript isn't enabled or supported by your customers, your CSS and HTML will still work. However, if CSS isn't supported by your customers, at least your HTML content will appear.

### Install extensions or packages

You can extend the functionality of Visual Studio Code using the extensions marketplace. Keep in mind that these extensions are community-developed resources and there are often several solutions for the same type of feature. You can install extensions individually in your editor, or several at once using the command line.

For web development, all you need right now is **open-in-browser**. This extension helps you to quickly open the website in your default browser, instead of copying and pasting the file URL into your browser.

To install this extension, use the following steps:

1. Select the **Extensions** icon on the vertical **Activity Bar** (left pane).

1. Enter "open in" in the search box, and then select the **open in browser** extension that is published by *TechER*.

1. Select **Install**, and Visual Studio Code will install the extension.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/vs-code-get-extension.png" alt-text="Screenshot of finding a Visual Studio Code extension.":::

1. Switch back to **Explorer** by clicking the top icon in the **Activity Bar**, or use <kbd>Control+Shift-E</kbd> on Windows or <kbd>Command+Shift-E</kbd> on macOS.

Way to go! Installation and setup take a little extra time, but you only need to install and set up once. Now you're ready to create a website.

Commit message:

Refresh simple-website learn module
This learn module is getting a bit old and I thought it could use a refresher.
It also lacked more links to DevTools docs, as knowing how to use the Elements and Console panel is really important when you start web development.
I thought it was a pitty to keep this only for the end, so I sprinkled a few links.
I also found a few confusing parts that I tried to clarify.
Finally, I updated all screenshots which had a few problems:
- some were showing Chrome DevTools, while it's a good idea to use this opportunity to show our own Edge DevTools
- some didn't show enough context, so I replaced them with the full window, and added red outlines, to make it easier for people to understand what to look at and where to find things
- I also replaced the custom ::: image tagging with actual markdown tagging. The custom tagging wasn't adding any value apart from a border around the images. But since I took screen captures of full windows, with the nice windows 11 rounded borders, we don't need those anymore. Using markdown tagging makes it simpler to read, and maintain, and also works when previewed in the github UI.

learn-pr/windows/build-simple-website/includes/2-project-structure.md, after:

There are different ways to create and manage website projects. Some of these differences depend on the specific tools you have and the preferences of your organization. When creating a website, it's not uncommon for your project structure to change over time as it becomes more complicated. The key is to maintain a semblance of organization, and there are common strategies to help you do this. Large projects often require a higher degree of care and attention so that many people can keep everything organized.

In this unit, you'll create a simple project structure using Visual Studio Code. The project will have three files: an HTML file, a CSS file, and a JavaScript file. You'll also add a Visual Studio Code extension to simplify running the website in your browser.

## Create a new folder for your website

1. Open VS Code.

   When you open Visual Studio Code, the **Get Started** page opens. Notice that you can create a new file or open a folder in the **Start** list.

   ![Screenshot of Visual Studio Code Get Started page.](../media/vs-code-get-started.png)

   If the **Get Started** page isn't visible, you can display it by selecting **Help > Get Started** on the menu. (Alternatively, you can display the **Get Started** page by opening the **Command Palette** using the keyboard shortcut <kbd>Shift+Ctrl+P</kbd> on a Windows computer or <kbd>Shift+Cmd+P</kbd> on a macOS, or by selecting **View > Command Palette** from the Visual Studio Code menu. When the **Command Palette** displays, enter **>Help: Get Started** in the search field to open the **Get Started** page.)

1. Select **Open folder** in the **Start** list of the **Welcome** page, or select **File > Open Folder** from the Visual Studio Code menu.

   ![Screenshot of Visual Studio Code open folder.](../media/vs-code-open-folder.png)

   When opening a folder, the operating system has a menu option to create a **New Folder**.

1. Navigate to the location where you want to create the new folder for your website, and select **New Folder**.

1. Name the folder **simple-website**, and then select **Select Folder**.

## Create some files

1. Create a new file by selecting **File > New File** from the menu, or by using <kbd>Control+N</kbd> on Windows or <kbd>Command+N</kbd> on macOS.

1. Save the file by selecting <kbd>Control+S</kbd> on Windows, or <kbd>Command+S</kbd> on macOS.

1. Enter `index.html` for the file name, and then select **Save**.

1. Repeat the preceding steps to create two more files: `main.css` and `app.js`. When you're finished, in Visual Studio Code Explorer, you see your project folder **simple-website** contains the following file, which comprise your website:

   - index.html
   - main.css
   - app.js

   ![Screenshot of your files in Visual Studio Code Explorer view.](../media/vs-code-explorer-view.png)

You could build a website by including all of your HTML, CSS styles, and JavaScript code within a single file. However, in this exercise you're using an HTML file for your content and page structure, a CSS file for your presentation and styling, and a JavaScript file for your behaviors and interactivity.

Setting up three files helps keep your website project organized. The separation of content, styles, and logic is an example of *progressive enhancement*. If JavaScript isn't enabled or supported by your customers, your CSS and HTML will still work. However, if CSS isn't supported by your customers, at least your HTML content will appear.

### Install extensions or packages

You can extend the functionality of Visual Studio Code using the extensions marketplace. Keep in mind that these extensions are community-developed resources and there are often several solutions for the same type of feature. You can install extensions individually in your editor, or several at once using the command line.

For web development, all you need right now is **open-in-browser**. This extension helps you to quickly open the website in your default browser, instead of copying and pasting the file URL into your browser.

To install this extension, use the following steps:

1. Select the **Extensions** icon on the vertical **Activity Bar** (left pane).

1. Enter "open in" in the search box, and then select the **open in browser** extension that is published by *TechER*.

1. Select **Install**, and Visual Studio Code will install the extension.

   ![Screenshot of finding a Visual Studio Code extension.](../media/vs-code-get-extension.png)

1. Switch back to **Explorer** by clicking the top icon in the **Activity Bar**, or use <kbd>Control+Shift-E</kbd> on Windows or <kbd>Command+Shift-E</kbd> on macOS.

Way to go! Installation and setup take a little extra time, but you only need to install and set up once. Now you're ready to create a website.
