There are two choices for migrating offline data to Azure. We’ll first cover Azure Import/Export. Then we’ll cover Azure Data Box. A short comparison table is provided at the end.

### Overview of Azure Import/Export

[Azure Import/Export](/azure/import-export/storage-import-export-service) is an Azure service that's used to migrate large quantities of data between an on-premises location and an Azure Storage account. By using the service, you send and receive physical disks that contain your data between your on-premises location and an Azure datacenter. You ship data that's stored on your own disk drives. These disk drives can be Serial ATA (SATA) hard-disk drives (HDDs) or solid-state drives (SSDs).

### When to use Azure Import/Export

The Azure Import/Export service is ideally suited to situations where you must upload or download large amounts of data, but your network backbone doesn't have sufficient capacity or reliability to support large-scale transfers. You typically use this service to:

- Migrate large amounts of data from on-premises to Azure, as a one-time task

- Back up your data on-premises in Azure Storage

- Recover large amounts of data that you previously stored in Azure Storage

- Distribute data from Azure Storage to customer sites

### How Azure Import/Export works

To use Azure Import/Export, you create a job that specifies the data that you want to import or export. You then prepare the disks to use to transfer the data. For an import job, you write your data to these disks and ship them to an Azure datacenter. Microsoft uploads the data for you. For an export job, you prepare a set of blank disks and ship them to an Azure datacenter. Microsoft copies the data to these disks and ships them back to you. Here are a few other things to know.

- You can use the Import/Export service to export data from Azure Blob storage only. You can't export data that's stored in Azure Files.

- BitLocker must be enabled on the Windows system.

- You’ll need an active shipping carrier account like FedEx or DHL for shipping drives to an Azure datacenter.

- If you’re exporting, you’ll need a set of disks that you can send to an Azure datacenter. The data center will use these disks to copy the data from Azure Storage.

 

### Overview of Azure Data Box

[Azure Data Box](/azure/databox/) provides a quick, reliable, and inexpensive method for moving large volumes of data to Azure. By using Microsoft Azure Data Box, you can send terabytes of data into and out of Azure. The solution is based on a secure storage device which is shipped to your organization. Your Data Box might include disks, ruggedized server chassis, or mobile disk. 

There are several products to fit different scenarios: [Data Box](/azure/databox/data-box-overview), [Data Box Disk](/azure/databox/data-box-disk-overview), and [Data Box Heavy](/azure/databox/data-box-heavy-overview) .The configuration process is basically the same across all the products. 
After you receive your storage device, you can quickly set it up using the local web-based management interface. Assuming you’re exporting data to Azure, copy the required data to the storage device, and then return it to Azure.


After you receive your storage device, you can quickly set it up using the local web-based management interface. Assuming you’re exporting data to Azure, copy the required data to the storage device, and then return it to Azure.

 

>[!NOTE]
> You will define your encryption keys for the storage device. The entire process is tracked end-to-end by the Data Box service in the Azure portal. 

### When should you use Data Box?

Data Box is ideally suited to transfer data sizes larger than 40 TBs. It's especially useful in scenarios with limited internet connectivity. You could consider using Data Box in the following situations.

| **Scenario**| **Explanation** |
| - | - |
| One time migration| When you want to migrate a large amount of on-premises data to Azure. For example: moving a media library from offline tapes into Azure to create an online media library; migrating your VM farm, SQL server, and applications to Azure; moving historical data to Azure for in-depth analysis and reporting using HDInsight. |
| Initial bulk transfer| You perform an initial bulk transfer with Data Box and follow it with incremental transfers over the network. For example: you move large volumes of historical backup to Azure. After this data is added, you continue to maintain the archive with incremental data is transfers via network to Azure storage. |
| Periodic uploads| When you have large volumes of data which is generated periodically. You want to move this data to Azure. For example, data generated by sensors from customer connected IoT devices. |


### What are the Data Box components?

The Data Box includes the following components:

| **Component**| **Description** |
| - | - |
| Data Box device| A physical device that provides primary storage, manages communication with cloud storage, and helps to ensure the security and confidentiality of all data stored on the device. The Data Box device has a usable storage capacity of 80 TB. |
| Data Box service| An extension of the Azure portal that lets you manage a Data Box device using a web interface that you can access from different geographical locations. Use the Data Box service to perform daily administration of your Data Box device. The service tasks include how to create and manage orders, view, and manage alerts, and manage shares. |
| Data Box local web-based user interface| A web-based UI that is used to configure the device so that it can connect to the local network, and then register the device with the Data Box service. Use the local web UI also to shut down and restart the Data Box device, view copy logs, and contact Microsoft Support to file a service request. |


 

### How to select between Azure Import/Export and Azure Data Box


| **Capacity**| **Azure Import/Export**| **Azure Data Box** |
| - | - | - |
| Form factor|  Internal SATA HDDs or SDDs| Secure, tamper-proof, single hardware appliance |
| Microsoft manages shipping logistics| No|  Yes |
| Integrates with partner products| No| Yes |
| Custom appliance| No| Yes |


> [!Tip]
> If you're looking to import or export more moderate volumes of data to and from Azure Blob storage, consider using other tools like AzCopy or Azure Storage Explorer.  
‎