By using Xamarin.Forms automation properties, app developers can improve the accessibility of their apps in several ways. Automation properties provide access to the underlying native platforms accessibility features. These properties give better control over screen readers and navigation assistance tools, which are crucial to support when building accessible mobile apps.

## Example scenario

Suppose you've been hired to build an app by using Xamarin.Forms. The specifications for the app were already created by a graphic designer. They include some elements that don't automatically provide hints for screen readers, such as images and entries. To ensure that our app is accessible to every user, we will extend these controls with accessibility features that Xamarin.Forms provides.

[!include[](../../../includes/install-vs-mobile-workload.md)]

## What will we be doing?

In this module, you'll first enable your system's screen reader and navigation assistance tools so you can get a feel for how they work. Then, you'll create a new Xamarin application and add automation properties and meaningful content ordering to improve its accessibility. You'll be able to use your screen reader to hear the speech generated by the automation properties and intelligently navigate your app's controls by swiping or using a keyboard.

## What is the main goal?

By the end of this session, you'll be able to add text-to-speech screen reader features and the order in which they're read, in order to improve the accessibility of Xamarin mobile applications.
