learn-pr/azure/allow-users-reset-their-password/includes/4-exercise-set-up-self-service-password-reset.md, before:

In this unit, you'll configure and test self-service password reset (SSPR) by using your mobile phone. You'll need to use your mobile phone to complete the password-reset process in this exercise.

## Create an Azure AD organization

The default Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) organization in the Azure sandbox doesn't support SSPR. So in this exercise, let's create a second organization and switch to it.

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/learn.docs.microsoft.com?azure-portal=true) with the same account you used to activate the sandbox.
1. Select **Create a resource** > **Identity** > **Azure Active Directory**.

   ![Screenshot that shows Azure Active Directory in the Azure Marketplace.](../media/4-create-active-directory.png)
1. On the **Create tenant** page, use these values, and then select **Create**.

    | Property | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | Organization name | Choose any organization name. |
    | Initial domain name | Choose a domain name that's unique within **.onmicrosoft.com**. Make a note of the domain you choose. |
    | Country or region | United States. |
    | | |

1. After you create the organization, select the F5 key to refresh the page. In the upper-right corner, select your user account. Then select **Switch directory**.
1. Select the organization you just created.

## Create an Azure AD Premium P2 trial subscription

Now activate a trial Premium subscription for the organization so that you can test SSPR.

1. Go to **Azure Active Directory** > **Password reset**.
1. Select **Get a free Premium trial to use this feature**.
1. Under **AZURE AD PREMIUM P2**, expand **Free trial** and then select **Activate**.
1. Refresh the browser to see the **Password reset - Properties** page.

## Create a group 

You want to roll out SSPR to a limited set of users first to make sure your SSPR configuration works as expected. Let's begin by creating a security group for the limited rollout.

1. In the Azure AD organization you created, under **Manage**, select **Groups**.
1. Select **+ New Group**.
1. Enter the following values:

    | Setting | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | Group type | Security |
    | Group name | SSPRTesters |
    | Group description | Testers of SSPR rollout |
    | Membership type | Assigned |
    | | |

1. Select **Create**.

    ![Screenshot that shows new group form.](../media/4-create-group.png)

## Create a user account

To test your configuration, create an account that's not associated with an administrator role.

1. In your Azure AD organization, under **Manage**, select **Users**.
1. Select **+ New user**, and use the following values:

    | Setting | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | User name | balas |
    | Name | Bala Sandhu |
    | Password | Select **Show Password**, and make a note of the password. |
    | Groups | Select SSPRTesters. |

1. Select **Create**.

## Enable SSPR

Now you're ready to enable SSPR for the group.

1. In your Azure AD organization, under **Manage**, select **Password reset**. 
1. If the **Password reset** page still displays the message **Get a free Premium trial to use this feature**, wait for a few minutes and then refresh the page.
1. On the **Properties** page, select **Selected**. Select the **SSPRTesters** group, and then select **Save**.

    ![Screenshot of the Password Reset properties panel wwith SSPR enabled and selected group set to SSPRTesters.](../media/4-choose-sspr-group.png)

1. Under **Manage**, select the **Authentication methods**, **Registration**, and **Notifications** pages to review the default values.
1. Select **Customization**.
1. Select **Yes**, and then in the **Custom helpdesk email or URL** text box, enter admin@organization-domain-name.onmicrosoft.com. Replace "organization-domain-name" with the domain name of the Azure AD organization you created. If you've forgotten the domain name, hover over your profile in the upper-right corner of the Azure portal.
1. Select **Save**.

## Register for SSPR

Now that the SSPR configuration is complete, register a mobile phone number for the user you created.

1. In a new browser window, go to https://aka.ms/ssprsetup.
1. Sign in with the user name balas@organization-domain-name.onmicrosoft.com and the password that you noted earlier.
1. If you're asked to update your password, enter a new password of your choice. Make sure you note the new password.
1. Next to **Authentication phone is not configured**, select **Set it up now**.
1. Enter your mobile phone details.

    ![Screenshot that shows mobile phone registration form for SSPR.](../media/4-register-mobile-phone.png)

1. Select **text me**.
1. When you receive the code on your mobile phone, enter the code in the text box.
1. Select **verify**, and then select **finish**.

## Test SSPR

Now let's test whether the user can reset their password.

1. In a new browser window, go to https://aka.ms/sspr.
1. For **User ID**, type balas@organization-domain-name.onmicrosoft.com. Replace "organization-domain-name" with the domain you used for your Azure AD organization.

    ![Screenshot that shows the password reset dialog.](../media/4-start-password-reset.png)
1. Complete the captcha, and then select **Next**.
1. Enter your mobile phone number, and then select **Text**.
1. When the text arrives, in the **Enter your verification code** text box, enter the code you were sent. Select **Next**.
1. Enter a new password, and then select **Finish**. Make sure you note the new password.
1. Sign out of the account.

Commit message:

Added a note
If you get the message: The administrator has not enabled this feature. Use private/incognito mode in your web browser.  

fixes AB#364421
fixes AB#364416

learn-pr/azure/allow-users-reset-their-password/includes/4-exercise-set-up-self-service-password-reset.md, after:

In this unit, you'll configure and test self-service password reset (SSPR) by using your mobile phone. You'll need to use your mobile phone to complete the password-reset process in this exercise.

## Create an Azure AD organization

The default Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) organization in the Azure sandbox doesn't support SSPR. So in this exercise, let's create a second organization and switch to it.

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/learn.docs.microsoft.com?azure-portal=true) with the same account you used to activate the sandbox.
1. Select **Create a resource** > **Identity** > **Azure Active Directory**.

   ![Screenshot that shows Azure Active Directory in the Azure Marketplace.](../media/4-create-active-directory.png)
1. On the **Create tenant** page, use these values, and then select **Create**.

    | Property | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | Organization name | Choose any organization name. |
    | Initial domain name | Choose a domain name that's unique within **.onmicrosoft.com**. Make a note of the domain you choose. |
    | Country or region | United States. |
    | | |

1. After you create the organization, select the F5 key to refresh the page. In the upper-right corner, select your user account. Then select **Switch directory**.
1. Select the organization you just created.

## Create an Azure AD Premium P2 trial subscription

Now activate a trial Premium subscription for the organization so that you can test SSPR.

1. Go to **Azure Active Directory** > **Password reset**.
1. Select **Get a free Premium trial to use this feature**.
1. Under **AZURE AD PREMIUM P2**, expand **Free trial** and then select **Activate**.
1. Refresh the browser to see the **Password reset - Properties** page.

## Create a group 

You want to roll out SSPR to a limited set of users first to make sure your SSPR configuration works as expected. Let's begin by creating a security group for the limited rollout.

1. In the Azure AD organization you created, under **Manage**, select **Groups**.
1. Select **+ New Group**.
1. Enter the following values:

    | Setting | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | Group type | Security |
    | Group name | SSPRTesters |
    | Group description | Testers of SSPR rollout |
    | Membership type | Assigned |
    | | |

1. Select **Create**.

    ![Screenshot that shows new group form.](../media/4-create-group.png)

## Create a user account

To test your configuration, create an account that's not associated with an administrator role.

1. In your Azure AD organization, under **Manage**, select **Users**.
1. Select **+ New user**, and use the following values:

    | Setting | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | User name | balas |
    | Name | Bala Sandhu |
    | Password | Select **Show Password**, and make a note of the password. |
    | Groups | Select SSPRTesters. |

1. Select **Create**.

## Enable SSPR

Now you're ready to enable SSPR for the group.

1. In your Azure AD organization, under **Manage**, select **Password reset**. 
1. If the **Password reset** page still displays the message **Get a free Premium trial to use this feature**, wait for a few minutes and then refresh the page.
1. On the **Properties** page, select **Selected**. Select the **SSPRTesters** group, and then select **Save**.

    ![Screenshot of the Password Reset properties panel wwith SSPR enabled and selected group set to SSPRTesters.](../media/4-choose-sspr-group.png)

1. Under **Manage**, select the **Authentication methods**, **Registration**, and **Notifications** pages to review the default values.
1. Select **Customization**.
1. Select **Yes**, and then in the **Custom helpdesk email or URL** text box, enter admin@organization-domain-name.onmicrosoft.com. Replace "organization-domain-name" with the domain name of the Azure AD organization you created. If you've forgotten the domain name, hover over your profile in the upper-right corner of the Azure portal.
1. Select **Save**.

## Register for SSPR

Now that the SSPR configuration is complete, register a mobile phone number for the user you created.

> [!NOTE] 
>  If you get the message: The administrator has not enabled this feature. Use private/incognito mode in your web browser.   

1. In a new browser window, go to https://aka.ms/ssprsetup. 
1. Sign in with the user name balas@organization-domain-name.onmicrosoft.com and the password that you noted earlier.
1. If you're asked to update your password, enter a new password of your choice. Make sure you note the new password.
1. Next to **Authentication phone is not configured**, select **Set it up now**.
1. Enter your mobile phone details.

    ![Screenshot that shows mobile phone registration form for SSPR.](../media/4-register-mobile-phone.png)

1. Select **text me**.
1. When you receive the code on your mobile phone, enter the code in the text box.
1. Select **verify**, and then select **finish**.

## Test SSPR

Now let's test whether the user can reset their password.

1. In a new browser window, go to https://aka.ms/sspr.
1. For **User ID**, type balas@organization-domain-name.onmicrosoft.com. Replace "organization-domain-name" with the domain you used for your Azure AD organization.

    ![Screenshot that shows the password reset dialog.](../media/4-start-password-reset.png)
1. Complete the captcha, and then select **Next**.
1. Enter your mobile phone number, and then select **Text**.
1. When the text arrives, in the **Enter your verification code** text box, enter the code you were sent. Select **Next**.
1. Enter a new password, and then select **Finish**. Make sure you note the new password.
1. Sign out of the account.
