The Analytics section in Azure Sentinel contains rule templates that are preloaded from the Azure Sentinel GitHub repository. You can use these templates to create a rule to detect security threats.

## Exploring the existing rule templates

You can use some of the existing rule templates to create a single rule and others to create multiple rules with different customization options. Templates that are in use display the **IN USE** label on the template page as displayed in the following screenshot. 

:::image type="content" source="../media/04-template-in-use.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the template in use." border="true":::

By selecting one of the rules on the **Rule Template** tab, you can observe the properties of the rule. For each rule, you can review:

- Severity level. This indicates the importance of the alert. There are four severity levels:
  - High
  - Medium
  - Low
  - Informational
- Name of the rule. This provides a meaningful name for the alert rule.
- Rule type. This defines the type of the rule that can be one of the following four types:
  - Fusion
  - Microsoft Security
  - ML Behavior Analytics
  - Scheduled
- Data Source. This specifies the data source connector that generated the alert.
- Tactics. This specifies techniques and methodologies in MITRE ATT&amp;CK model used by different kinds of malware.

> [!NOTE]
> MITRE ATT&amp;CK is a globally accessible knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques based on real-world observations. The ATT&amp;CK knowledge base provides a foundation for the development of specific threat models and methodologies in the private sector, in government, and in the cybersecurity product and service community.

When you select a rule name on the template page, the details pane of the selected rule provides more information for the rule. Depending on the type of the rule that you select, the details pane can contain different fields of information. For Fusion and ML behavior analytics rules, Microsoft doesn't provide any additional information. However, for scheduled rules, you can review the query rule used in the threat detection.

## Creating an analytic rule from a rule template

When you select a predefined rule template, the details pane provides the **Create rule** button. By selecting this button, you can create an analytics rule from that template. The composition of the analytics rule built from the template depends on the rule type that you select.

By default, Azure Sentinel Analytics creates an alert rule using the Fusion rule template. For ML behavior analytics, you can only create a rule as enabled or disabled, and you don't have the option to further customize the rule.

A rule you create from the Microsoft security templates consists of the following elements:

- **Name**. This is prepopulated from the name of the rule template.
- **Description**. This provides more details on the creation of the alerts.
- **Status**. This indicates whether the analytics rule is enabled or disabled.
- **Analytic rule logic**. This indicates the source of the alert from one of the Microsoft security services.
- **Filter by severity**. Use to tune alerts from a source based on the severity level, which can be High, Medium, Low, or Informational.
- **Include specific alerts**. Use to filter alerts that contain a specific text in their name.
- **Exclude specific alerts**. Use to filter alerts that don't contain a specific text in their name.

> [!NOTE]
> When you implement filters to include or exclude specific alerts based on a text string, these alerts will not appear in Azure Sentinel. 

The following screenshot presents an example of creating an incident from alerts generated by the Azure Security Center.

:::image type="content" source="../media/04-create-analytics-rule.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the wizard used to create analytics rules from templates." border="true":::

The "Creating an Analytics" rule from the wizard describes how to create an analytics rule from a scheduled template rule type.

> [!NOTE]
> For certain rule templates, the **Create rule** button might be disabled, which indicates that you can't create a rule from selected template because of a missing data source.
