<!-- Original file: C:\Users\Mark\Desktop\CMU-source\v_5_3\content\_u03_virtualizing_resources_for_cloud\_u03_m01_introduction_motivation\x-oli-workbook_page\_u03_m01_1_intro.xml -->
##  Virtualization
Virtualization is at the core of the cloud computing paradigm. It lies on top of the cloud infrastructure (or the data center) whereby virtual resources (e.g., virtual CPUs, memories, disks, networks) are constructed from the underlying physical resources and act as proxies to them. As is the case with the idea of cloud computing, which was first introduced in the 1960s, virtualization can be traced back to the 1970s. Forty years ago, the mainframe computer systems were extremely large and expensive. To address expanding user needs and costly machine ownership, the IBM 370 architecture, announced in 1970, offered complete virtual machines (VMs) (virtual hardware images) to different programs running on the same computer hardware. Over time, computer hardware became less expensive, and users started migrating to low-priced desktop machines. This migration drove the adoption of the virtualization technology to fade for a period of time. Today, virtualization is enjoying a resurgence in popularity, with a number of research projects and commercial systems providing virtualization solutions for commodity PCs, servers, and the cloud. The following video (Video 3.1) is a brief introduction to virtualization.

> [!VIDEO]("https://youtube.com/embed/x2rzUi9fIHU")

In this unit, we study the various ingredients of virtualization technology and the crucial role it plays in enabling cloud computing. First, we identify the major reasons that are making virtualization an essential component of modern computer systems, especially for the cloud. Second, we learn how multiple hardware and software images can run side-by-side on a single resource while <!-- SCG: don't understand this sentence. "provided with ..." --> provided with security, resource, and failure isolation, which are critical requirements for cloud computing. Prior to delving into more details about virtualization, we present a brief background requisite for understanding how physical resources can be virtualized. In particular, we indicate how system complexity can be managed in terms of levels of abstractions and well-defined interfaces. Next, we describe resource sharing, in space and in time, as a general technique for improving system utilization. To this end, we formally define virtualization and examine two main VM types: process and system VMs. 

After introducing and motivating virtualization for the cloud, we describe in detail CPU, memory, and I/O virtualization. Specifically, we first identify conditions for virtualizing CPUs, recognize the difference between virtualization and paravirtualization, explain emulation as a major technique for CPU virtualization, and examine Xen's virtual CPU scheduling. Xen is a popular virtualization platform that Amazon utilizes in its AWS public cloud. Next, we outline the difference between conventional operating system's virtual memory and system memory virtualization, explain the multiple levels of page mapping as imposed by memory virtualization, define memory overcommitment, and illustrate memory ballooning, a reclamation technique for memory overcommitment in VMware, which is another common virtualization platform. Finally, we explain how CPU and I/O devices can communicate with and without virtualization, identify the three main interfaces (system call, device driver, and operation level interfaces at which I/O virtualization can be applied), and study I/O virtualization pertaining to Xen. We close with two main case studies, Amazon EC2, which applies virtualization to provide IaaS, and Google App Engine, which also applies virtualization to deliver PaaS.