Design plays a vital role in creating a mixed reality application as it defines the many ways a user can interact with your application. In today's world, applications are critical for the success of a business. Well-designed mixed reality applications can solve the customer's problem in a pleasant experience and an efficient way. How can you help your customers solve problems with a great user experience in a mixed reality application? What steps must you incorporate to help the customers navigate in a physical or virtual space and complete their task? As a designer, the goal is to create an intuitive, and effortless spatial interaction to solve customer's problems in mixed reality.

Today's designers that are designing for 3D and immersive devices are seeing opportunities to rethink the user interaction and design techniques of the 2D world that they're used to. For example, when designing applications for virtual reality devices, you should consider the immersive characteristics of the display and the use of motion controllers as input. On the other hand, when designing for augmented reality devices and holographic headsets such as HoloLens, you need to consider the physical environment surrounding the user.

Think of your favorite application. What are some of the outstanding design features? They could be the color theme, the UI elements, or something else. The little things make a significant difference when designing an application from scratch. Imagine that you're developing a mixed reality application and have a limited idea of design requirements and standards. It can be tricky to design a great mixed reality application. Here, we have a learning module dedicated to helping you get started on the mixed reality design journey.

As you complete this module, you're able to understand the standard requirements for designing a mixed reality application. You also learn about the resources available to assist you in designing various applications. Finally, a few examples in mixed reality help you understand design concepts.