Cloud-native development can require developers to connect together different micro-services like databases, messaging queues, and caches. .NET Aspire simplifies this process by providing a set of templates you can use to create and manage the connections between these services.

In this unit, learn how to create a new .NET Aspire project and understand the differences between the two starter project templates. Then explore the structure of the solution generated.

## .NET Aspire prerequisites

Before you can create a new .NET Aspire project, there are some prerequisites you need to install locally:

- [.NET 8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0)
- [Visual Studio 2022 Preview](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/preview/)
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) or [Podman](https://podman.io/)
- .NET Aspire workload in Visual Studio

In the next exercise, you'll go through the steps to install these prerequisites.

## Choose the best .NET Aspire template for your project

There are two .NET Aspire starter templates currently available:

- **.NET Aspire Application**: This template is a good starting point for new projects. It only includes the **AspireSample.AppHost** and **AspireSample.ServiceDefaults** projects. This template is useful when you want to start from scratch and add your own components and services.

- **.NET Aspire Starter Application**: This template includes the **AspireSample.AppHost** and **AspireSample.ServiceDefaults** projects, but also includes an example Blazor App **AspireSample.Web** and an API that provides data to it **AspireSample.ApiService**. These projects are preconfigured with service discovery and other basic examples of common .NET Aspire functionality.

Both Aspire templates provide a dashboard to monitor the health of the services and the traffic between them. The dashboard helps improve your local development experience &mdash; as at a glance it gives you an overview of the state and structure of your app.

There are also three project templates available:

- **.NET Aspire App Host**: A template that only contains an app host (orchestrator) project.
- **.NET Aspire Service Defaults**: A template that only contains the service defaults project.
- **.NET Aspire Test Project**: A template that only contains unit tests for the app host project.

## Creating a new .NET Aspire project by using a .NET Aspire template

You can use the Visual Studio launch dialog to create a new .NET Aspire project, or **File** > **New** > **Project**. You can also use .NET CLI commands. To create a solution with the *.NET Aspire Application* template, you would use this command:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new aspire 
```

Or to use the *.NET Aspire Starter Application* template, you would use this command:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new aspire-starter
```

A benefit of using Visual Studio is you choose your configuration options through dialogs. The .NET CLI commands are useful when you want to create a new .NET Aspire project with default settings, but you can alter the defaults with optional flags. In the next exercise, you'll see how to create a new .NET Aspire project using both methods.

## Explore the structure of solutions generated by the .NET Aspire templates

The .NET Aspire templates generate a solution with a specific structure. This structure is a simplified diagram for the starter application, without the caching or testing options enabled:

```Directory
────📂 AspireSample
     ├───📂 AspireSample.ApiService
     │    ├───📂 Properties
     │    │    └─── launchSettings.json
     │    ├─── appsettings.json
     │    ├─── AspireSample.ApiService.csproj
     │    └─── Program.cs
     ├───📂 AspireSample.AppHost
     │    ├───📂 Properties
     │    │    └─── launchSettings.json
     │    ├─── appsettings.json
     │    ├─── AspireSample.AppHost.csproj
     │    └─── Program.cs
     ├───📂 AspireSample.ServiceDefaults
     │    ├─── AspireSample.ServiceDefaults.csproj
     │    └─── Extensions.cs
     ├───📂 AspireSample.Web
     │    ├───📂 Components
     │    │    ├───📂 Layout
     │    │    │    ├─── ...
     │    │    ├───📂 Pages
     │    │    │    ├─── ...
     │    │    ├─── ...
     │    ├───📂 Properties
     │    │    └─── launchSettings.json
     │    ├───📂 wwwroot
     │    │    ├───...
     │    ├─── appsettings.json
     │    ├─── AspireSample.Web.csproj
     │    ├─── Program.cs
     │    └─── WeatherApiClient.cs
     └─── AspireSample.sln
```

Both templates add **AppHost** and **ServiceDefaults** projects. These projects are the core of an application built with .NET Aspire. The **AppHost** project is the entry point and is responsible for acting as the orchestrator.

The **ServiceDefaults** project contains the default configuration for the application. These configurations are reused across all the projects in your solution.

The above solution also includes **Web** and **ApiService** projects. The **Web** project is a Blazor WebAssembly app that has a counter and calls the **ApiService** to get forecast data. The **ApiService** is a simple API that returns forecast data.

### Walk through the code structure

The **AspireSample.AppHost** project has the following code in *Program.cs*:

```csharp
var builder = DistributedApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

var cache = builder.AddRedis("cache");

var apiService = builder.AddProject<Projects.AspireStarterSample_ApiService>("apiservice");

builder.AddProject<Projects.AspireStarterSample_Web>("webfrontend")
    .WithReference(cache)
    .WithReference(apiService);

builder.Build().Run();
```

Walking through the above code, line by line:

- Create a `builder` variable that's a `IDistributedApplicationBuilder`.
- Create a `cache` variable that's a `IResourceBuilder<RedisResource>`.
- Call `AddProject` with a generic-type parameter containing the project's `IServiceMetadata` details, adding the **AspireSample.ApiService** project to the application model.

    This is a fundamental building block of .NET Aspire. The `AddProject` configures service discovery and communication between the projects in your app. The name argument **apiservice** is used to identify the project in the application model, and used later by projects that want to communicate with it.

- Calls `AddProject` again, this time adding the **AspireSample.Web** project to the application model. It also chains multiple calls to `WithReference` passing the **cache** and **apiservice** variables.

    The `WithReference` API is another fundamental API of .NET Aspire, which injects either service discovery information or connection string configuration into the project being added to the application model.

- Finally, the `builder` calls `Build` and `Run` to start the application.
