For us to be able effectively set up monitoring to improve our reliability,
we are going to have to have a really good understanding of what sort of
things we might consider measuring. In this unit, we hope to suggest some
possibilities that may expand your understanding of reliability.

Let's look at some aspects of reliability now:

PLACEHOLDER FOR DIAGRAM

## Availability

When people talk about reliability, they tend to start with availability.
Is the system "up" or is it "down"? Can others reach your website or your
service? Can they use the product when they expect to? It is important from
the perspective of both external customers and internal users who depend on
your service. Availability is probably the aspect of reliability you will
spend the most time working with. It is a good starting point for
discussing reliability, but it’s only one aspect.

PLACEHOLDER FOR DIAGRAM

## Latency

Latency refers to the amount of delay between a request and a response. You
may have heard the catchphrase “slow is the new down.” People demand fast
performance and they lose patience with a site or service that leaves them
waiting. We have good research that shows that if a website doesn't meet
their expectations for response time customers are likely to go to a
competitor.

PLACEHOLDER FOR DIAGRAM

## Throughput

Throughput is a measure of the rate at which something is processed, or the
number of transactions that a website, application, or service successfully
handles over a specified period of time. This is particularly important
when running pipelines or batch processing systems. If a pipeline or a
batch processing system isn't processing things fast enough, i.e. not
meeting our expectations, it isn't considered reliable.

PLACEHOLDER FOR DIAGRAM

## Coverage

Coverage refers to how much of the data that you expected to process was
actually processed. Again, we come back to the idea of measuring how well
we are meeting expectations as part of determining if something is
reliable.

PLACEHOLDER FOR DIAGRAM

## Correctness

An aspect of reliability that is often overlooked is “correctness”. Did the
process that you ran on the data yield the correct or expected result? This
is an important factor to include in monitoring for reliability. No matter
how fast or “always available” your service or site is, if it returns
incorrect results, it’s not reliable in the eyes of your customers.
Monitoring for correctness of results is an important part of monitoring
for reliability.

PLACEHOLDER FOR DIAGRAM

## Fidelity

Fidelity in this context is best understood through an example. Let's say
you visit the home page of a video streaming site. That page would be made
up of separate sections--new releases, personalized recommendations, top 10
movies watched, etc. Each of those sections is likely generated by a
separate backend service. If one of those services goes down, for example,
the personalization engine, visitors to the site don't get a "Sorry this
site is down" message or a blank page. Instead they see a home page with
that section either removed or replaced with static content. In technical
terms we would say they received a "degraded" experience instead of the
complete intended page.

If we were to measure fidelity we would be measuring how often the user of
a service received a "degraded" experience vs. the full one (complete
fidelity). This measurement is useful for any fault-tolerant service that
has the ability to continue running in a degraded mode when something goes
wrong.

PLACEHOLDER FOR DIAGRAM

## Freshness

Freshness refers to how up-to-date the information is in situations where
timeliness matters to the customer. For example, services that provide
sports scores or election results. Those services are considered reliable
if the data they provide is kept current.

PLACEHOLDER FOR DIAGRAM

## Durability

Durability is another slightly more niche aspect of reliability. If you are
running a service that provides storage, you know just how important it is
that a bit a customer writes to your service can be read later. This is a
durability expectation.

Even though this is not an exhaustive list of possibilities, hopefully
there were a few you hadn't considered and hence have an expanded
understanding of reliability. We're going to take this understanding into
the next unit where we start to ask some crucial questions about just what
we'll want to measure when it comes to reliability.
