Generative AI models used for content generation are trained on large amounts of data from various sources. The content generated by generative AI models might have a machine learning bias. Machine learning bias happens when an AI model generates biased content due to inaccuracies in the data used for training the model. Ensuring accuracy, relevance, and impartiality in content requires critical thinking skills.  

Critical thinking is the ability to analyze, evaluate, and improve your own reasoning. This skill is essential while utilizing generative AI. Applying critical thinking helps to verify, interpret, and improve the content you create and consume.

Critical thinking consists of:

1. **Interpretation**. Drawing inferences beyond the literal meaning of content generated by AI tools. For example, learners might read a description of a historical period and infer why people behaved the way they did during that time.
1. **Analysis**. Identify the parts of a whole and their relationships to one another. For example, learners might investigate local environmental factors to determine which are most likely to affect migrating birds.
1. **Synthesis**. Identify relationships between two or more ideas. For example, learners might be required to compare perspectives from multiple sources.
1. **Evaluation**. Judging the quality, credibility, or importance of data, ideas, or events. For example, learners might read different accounts of a historical event and determine which ones they find most credible.

Users can produce good quality AI-generated content easily, quickly, and responsibly by using critical thinking. Here are a few steps you can take to ensure you use generative AI tools responsibly.

1. **Accuracy check**. Double-checking facts for accuracy are essential when using generative AI tools. You can prompt Large Language Models (LLMs) to cite the sources used to generate content for your prompt. It's important to check the cited sources to ensure they're current, reliable, and from a reputable website.
1. **Ask questions and seek feedback**. While creating and consuming generative AI content, ask yourself questions such as: What is the purpose? Who is the intended audience? How reliable are the sources and information? Asking questions and seeking feedback helps improve your understanding of the content.
1. **Compare and contrast**. Utilize different parameters and descriptions for the same prompt to see if the content generated is relevant and similar. Use critical thinking skills to interpret the results from your prompt. Reflect on your own critical thinking skills and assess how you analyzed and evaluated the different answers.
1. **Refer to the content policies**. AI tool creators publish guidelines on how to use their tools responsibly. For example, the Microsoft content policy for Image Creator from Microsoft Designer prohibits content generation depicting child exploitation, child sexualization, adult content, human trafficking, self-harm, acts of terrorism, and violence against others. In summary, these guidelines aim to ensure the usage of the Microsoft Image Creator tool while contributing towards cultivating a safer online environment.
1. **Legal requirements**. Be informed about legislative changes on AI tool use in your work and disclose the use of AI tools in content generation when required.
