learn-pr/advocates/deploy-java-ee-app-to-jboss-app-service/includes/2-deploy-azure-database-mysql.md, before:

Azure Database for MySQL is a relational database service that's based on MySQL Community Edition. It's a fully managed database-as-a-service offering that can handle mission-critical workloads with predictable performance and dynamic scale.

## Azure Database for MySQL deployment options

To host a MySQL database in Azure, you can use either the Single Server or Flexible Server (Preview) deployment option. The Flexible Server option provides:

- Better control of your database servers and cost optimization.
- The ability to develop applications by customizing the MySQL engine.
- Zone-redundant high availability.
- Managed maintenance windows to control the timing of patches and upgrades.
- Configuration parameters for tuning.

## Commands for deploying a Flexible Server instance

To deploy a Flexible Server instance of Azure Database for MySQL, you first create a resource group. You then create the instance in the resource group. Finally, to access the instance, you configure a firewall rule.

The following steps outline the commands for those tasks:

1. Sign in to Azure:

   ```azurecli
   az login
   ```

1. Create an Azure resource group:

   ```azurecli
   az group create --name $MYSQL_RES_GRP_NAME --location $MYSQL_LOCATION
   ```

1. Create a Flexible Server instance of Azure Database for MySQL:

   ```azurecli
   az mysql flexible-server create \
         --location $MYSQL_LOCATION \
         --resource-group $MYSQL_RES_GRP_NAME \
         --name $MYSQL_SERVER_NAME \
         --admin-user $MYSQL_USER \
         --admin-password $MYSQL_PASSWORD \
         --sku-name Standard_B1ms \
         --public-access $PUBLIC_IP \
         --storage-size 32 \
         --version 5.7
   ```

1. Create a firewall rule:

   ```azurecli
   az mysql flexible-server firewall-rule create \
         -g $MYSQL_RES_GRP_NAME \
         -n $MYSQL_SERVER_NAME \
         -r AllowAllAzureIPs \
         --start-ip-address 0.0.0.0 \
         --end-ip-address 255.255.255.255
   ```

Commit message:

On branch edburns-msft-eb-3195-eap-app-service-validate this module and sugest improvements modified:   advocates/deploy-java-ee-app-to-jboss-app-service/includes/2-deploy-azure-database-mysql.md modified:   advocates/deploy-java-ee-app-to-jboss-app-service/includes/3-exercise-deploy-azure-database-mysql.md
Signed-off-by: Ed Burns <edburns@microsoft.com>

learn-pr/advocates/deploy-java-ee-app-to-jboss-app-service/includes/2-deploy-azure-database-mysql.md, after:

Azure Database for MySQL is a relational database service that's based on MySQL Community Edition. It's a fully managed database-as-a-service offering that can handle mission-critical workloads with predictable performance and dynamic scale.

## Azure Database for MySQL deployment options

To host a MySQL database in Azure, you can use either the Single Server or Flexible Server (Preview) deployment option. The Flexible Server option provides:

- Better control of your database servers and cost optimization.
- The ability to develop applications by customizing the MySQL engine.
- Zone-redundant high availability.
- Managed maintenance windows to control the timing of patches and upgrades.
- Configuration parameters for tuning.

## Commands for deploying a Flexible Server instance

To deploy a Flexible Server instance of Azure Database for MySQL, you first create a resource group. You then create the instance in the resource group. Finally, to access the instance, you configure a firewall rule.

The following steps outline the commands for those tasks:

1. Sign in to Azure:

   ```azurecli
   az login
   ```

1. Create an Azure resource group. 

   `MYSQL_RES_GRP_NAME` must by unique within your subscription. `MYSQL_LOCATION` must be one of the values returned in the `Name` column when you run the command `az account list-locations --output table`.

   ```azurecli
   az group create --name $MYSQL_RES_GRP_NAME --location $MYSQL_LOCATION
   ```

1. Create a Flexible Server instance of Azure Database for MySQL. 

   `MYSQL_SERVER_NAME` must be unique within the resource group. The name can contain only lowercase letters, numbers, and the hyphen (-) character. Minimum 3 characters and maximum 63 characters. For simplicity you can usually just use the value of `MYSQL_RES_GRP_NAME`. `MYSQL_PASSWORD` is the password of the administrator. Minimum 8 characters and maximum 128 characters. Password must contain characters from three of the following categories: English uppercase letters, English lowercase letters, numbers, and non-alphanumeric characters. `PUBLIC_IP` is the public IP address of the host name from which you want to allow connections outside of Azure. This is used for testing of the database from your local host.

   ```azurecli
   az mysql flexible-server create \
         --location $MYSQL_LOCATION \
         --resource-group $MYSQL_RES_GRP_NAME \
         --name $MYSQL_SERVER_NAME \
         --admin-user $MYSQL_USER \
         --admin-password $MYSQL_PASSWORD \
         --sku-name Standard_B1ms \
         --public-access $PUBLIC_IP \
         --storage-size 32 \
         --version 5.7
   ```

1. Create a firewall rule:

   ```azurecli
   az mysql flexible-server firewall-rule create \
         -g $MYSQL_RES_GRP_NAME \
         -n $MYSQL_SERVER_NAME \
         -r AllowAllAzureIPs \
         --start-ip-address 0.0.0.0 \
         --end-ip-address 255.255.255.255
   ```
