Group Policies, or GPOs, have been used by Windows server administrators for a long time, to manage security, provide consistency across the Windows Server environment in your organization. Some examples of group policies are enforcement of password complexity, mapping shared network drives and configuring networked printers.

Azure offers similar features in Azure Resource Manager using Azure policy. A policy provides a level of governance over your Azure subscriptions. Policy can enforce rules and controls over your Azure resources. Some examples of how you might use this include limiting the regions you can deploy a resource to, enforcing naming standards, or controlling resource sizes. Azure provides many example policies that you can use or you can define custom policies using JSON.

Policies are assigned to a specific scope, which could be a management group (a group of subscriptions that are managed together), a subscription, a resource group, or even an individual resource. Most commonly policy will be applied at the subscription or resource group level. Individual policies can be grouped using a structure known as initiatives, which are sometimes called policy sets. Policies have a scope of assignment that can be defined at the individual resource, the resource group, the subscription, or a management group (a group of subscriptions managed together), or all of the subscriptions in a given tenant.

Another example of how you might implement Azure Policy is tagging of resources. Azure tags, which are described below, store metadata about Azure resources in key-value pairs, and are commonly used to highlight environment type (test, QA, or production) or cost center for a given resource. A policy that required all resources to have a tag for environment and cost center would cause an error and block the deployment of any Azure resource that did not have the required tags.
