One of the reasons why many DBAs became so familiar with Azure automation is that Azure SQL Database initially lacked capabilities for scheduled jobs. The introduction of elastic jobs allows you to run a set of T-SQL scripts against a collection of servers or databases as a one-time job, or by using a defined schedule. Elastic jobs work similarly to SQL Server Agent jobs, except that they are limited to executing T-SQL. The jobs work across all tiers of Azure SQL Database (excluding managed instance, which has a SQL Server Agent). To configure Elastic Jobs, you need a Job Agent and database dedicated to managing your jobs. The agent is free, but the database is required to be a paid database. The recommended service tier is S1 or higher, and the optimum service tier will be dependent on the number of jobs you are executing and the frequency of those jobs.

In elastic jobs you must define a target group, which can consist of a SQL Database server, an elastic pool, or one or more single databases. If a server or elastic pool is the target, a credential within the master database of the server or pool should be created so that the job agent can enumerate the databases within. For a single database, a database credential is all that is needed. T-SQL scripts being executed by elastic jobs should be idempotent, which means if the job is run multiple times, whether accidentally or because of job failure, that the job won’t fail or produce unintended results. You should be able to run the same script multiple times without failure.
