:::image type="content" border="true" source="../media/surface-pro-user.jpeg" alt-text="Photo of a user working on Surface Pro for Business, 13-inch (12th Edition).":::

Surface Pro for Business, 13-inch (12th Edition) offers a flexible design, on-the-go performance, and trusted security for modern business users. This device is ideal for IT leaders, business decision makers, and business users.

- **IT leaders:** IT teams are stretched thin managing diverse devices, inconsistent performance, and a growing attack surface. At the same time, they face pressure to support AI adoption while maintaining compliance and managing risk. The combination of Surface Pro for Business, 13-inch (12th Edition) and Windows brings AI capabilities into everyday workflows through experiences in Microsoft 365 and Copilot—maintaining a stable environment for deployment, management, and support. Standardizing on Surface Pro for Business, 13-inch (12th Edition) supports IT leaders with a more consistent and manageable device ecosystem. Plus, with built-in Zero Trust capabilities, it supports a consistent security foundation while aligning with Microsoft's end-to-end security approach as organizations adopt new AI capabilities.
- **Business decision makers:** Leaders need their teams to deliver more strategic, high-value work but fragmented workflows, outdated devices, and rising expectations hold back performance. Surface Pro for Business, 13-inch (12th Edition) enables higher-value work while also supporting modern workstyles—combining laptop-grade performance, tablet portability, and on-device AI to help teams stay productive wherever work happens. AI experiences such as Recall (preview) and Windows Studio Effects foster efficient data retrieval and collaboration—reducing time spent on routine tasks and increasing productivity in a demanding environment.
- **Business users:** Work today is often slowed by distracting tools, constant context switching, and devices that can't keep up. With Surface Pro for Business, 13-inch (12th Edition), business users can rely on performance from Intel® Core™ Ultra Series 3 processor with a built-in NPU enabling fast, efficient, performance across everyday productivity, collaboration, and AI-assisted tasks. As a laptop-tablet hybrid, Surface Pro for Business, 13-inch (12th Edition) adapts to different work styles—supporting touch, pen, typing, and detached keyboard use for focused work in any environment.
