learn-pr/wwl-azure/host-security/includes/9-windows-defender.md, before:

Windows 10, Windows Server 2019, and Windows Server 2016 include key security features. They are Windows Defender Credential Guard, Windows Defender Device Guard, and Windows Defender Application Control.

## Windows Defender Credential Guard

Introduced in Windows 10 Enterprise and Windows Server 2016, Windows Defender Credential Guard uses virtualization-based security enhancement to isolate secrets so that only privileged system software can access them. Unauthorized access to these secrets might lead to credential theft attacks, such as Pass-the-Hash or pass-the-ticket attacks. Windows Defender Credential Guard helps prevent these attacks by helping protect Integrated Windows Authentication (NTLM) password hashes, Kerberos authentication ticket-granting tickets, and credentials that applications store as domain credentials.

By enabling Windows Defender Credential Guard, you get the following features and solutions:

 -  Hardware security enhancement. NTLM, Kerberos, and Credential Manager take advantage of platform security features, including Secure Boot and virtualization, to help protect credentials.
 -  Virtualization-based security enhancement. NTLM-derived credentials, Kerberos-derived credentials, and other secrets run in a protected environment that is isolated from the running operating system.
 -  Better protection against advanced persistent threats. When virtualization-based security enhancement helps protect Credential Manager domain credentials, NTLM-derived credentials, and Kerberos-derived credentials, the credential theft attack techniques and tools that many targeted attacks use are blocked. Malware running in the OS with administrative privileges can’t extract secrets that virtualization-based security helps protect. Although Windows Defender Credential Guard provides powerful mitigation, persistent threat attacks will likely shift to new attack techniques, so you should also incorporate Windows Defender Device Guard and other security strategies and architectures.

## Windows Defender Device Guard and Windows Defender Application Control

The configuration state of Windows Defender Device Guard was originally designed with a specific security idea in mind. Although no direct dependencies existed between the two main OS features of the Windows Defender Device Guard configuration—that is, between configurable code integrity and Hypervisor-protected code integrity (HVCI)—the discussion intentionally focused on the Windows Defender Device Guard lockdown state that can be achieved when they’re deployed together.

However, the use of the term device guard to describe this configuration state has unintentionally left many IT pros with the impression that the two features are inexorably linked and can’t be separately deployed. Additionally, because HVCI relies on security based on Windows virtualization, it comes with additional hardware, firmware, and kernel driver compatibility requirements that some older systems can’t meet.

As a result, many IT pros assumed that because some systems couldn't use HVCI, they couldn’t use configurable code integrity, either. But configurable code integrity has no specific hardware or software requirements other than running Windows 10, which means that many IT pros were wrongly denied the benefits of this powerful application control capability.

Since the initial release of Windows 10, the world has witnessed numerous hacking and malware attacks where application control alone might have prevented the attack altogether. Configurable code integrity is now documented as an independent technology within the Microsoft security stack and given a name of its own: Windows Defender Application Control.

Application control is a crucial line of defense for helping protect enterprises given today’s threat landscape, and it has an inherent advantage over traditional antivirus solutions. Specifically, application control moves away from the traditional application trust model, in which all applications are assumed trustworthy by default, to one where applications must earn trust to run. Many organizations understand this and frequently cite application control as one of the most effective means for addressing the threat of malware based on executable files (such as .exe and .dll files).

Windows Defender Application Control helps mitigate these types of threats by restricting the applications that users can run and the code that runs in the system core, or kernel. Policies in Windows Defender Application Control also block unsigned scripts and MSIs, and Windows PowerShell runs in Constrained language mode.

Does this mean the Windows Defender Device Guard configuration state is going away? Not at all. The term device guard will continue to describe the fully locked down state achieved using Windows Defender Application Control, HVCI, and hardware and firmware security features. It will also allow Microsoft to work with its original equipment manufacturer (OEM) partners to identify specifications for devices that are device guard capable—so that joint customers can easily purchase devices that meet all the hardware and firmware requirements of the original locked down scenario of Windows Defender Device Guard for Windows 10 devices.

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[7ccc0b1b-200a-4f90-bd4a-ca321b088353] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-azure/host-security/includes/9-windows-defender.md, after:


## Managed disk Encryption Options

There are several types of encryption available for your managed disks, including Azure Disk Encryption (ADE), Server-Side Encryption (SSE), and encryption at the host.

 -  Azure Disk Encryption helps protect and safeguard your data to meet organizational security and compliance commitments. ADE encrypts the OS and data disks of Azure virtual machines (VMs) inside your VMs by using the device mapper DM-Crypt feature of Linux or the BitLocker feature of Windows. Azure Disk Encryption (ADE) is integrated with Azure Key Vault to help you control and manage the disk encryption keys and secrets.
 -  Azure Disk Storage Server-Side Encryption (also referred to as encryption-at-rest or Azure Storage encryption) automatically encrypts data stored on Azure-managed disks (OS and data disks) when persisting on the Storage Clusters. When configured with a Disk Encryption Set (DES), it supports customer-managed keys as well.
 -  Encryption at the host ensures that data stored on the VM host hosting your VM is encrypted at rest and flows encrypted to the Storage clusters.
 -  Confidential disk encryption binds disk encryption keys to the virtual machine's TPM (Trusted Platform Module) and makes the protected disk content accessible only to the VM. The TPM and VM guest state is always encrypted in attested code using keys released by a secure protocol that bypasses the hypervisor and host operating system. Currently only available for the OS disk. Encryption at the host may be used for other disks on a Confidential VM in addition to Confidential Disk Encryption.

Encryption is part of a layered approach to security and should be used with other recommendations to secure Virtual Machines and their disks.

## Comparison

The following is a comparison of **Storage Server-Side Encryption (SSE)**, **Azure Disk Encryption (ADE)**, **encryption at the host**, and **Confidential disk encryption**.

:::image type="content" source="../media/managed-disk-encryption-options-4d8a7b78.png":::


> [!IMPORTANT]
> *For **Encryption at the host** and **Confidential disk encryption**, Microsoft Defender for Cloud does not detect the encryption state. We are in the process of updating Microsoft Defender.*
