Azure SQL Database is a fully managed Platform as a Service (PaaS) Database Engine that handles most of the database management functions such as upgrading, patching, backups, and monitoring without user involvement. Azure SQL Database is always running on the latest stable version of SQL Server Database Engine and patched OS with 99.99% availability. PaaS capabilities that are built in to Azure SQL Database enable you to focus on the domain-specific database administration and optimization activities that are critical for your business.

## Key features:

 -  Business Continuity: Business continuity in Azure SQL Database refers to the mechanisms, policies, and procedures that enable your business to continue operating in the face of disruption, particularly to its computing infrastructure. In the most of the cases, Azure SQL Database will handle the disruptive events that might happen in the cloud environment and keep your applications and business processes running.
 -  High Availability: The goal of the High Availability architecture in Azure SQL Database is to guarantee that your database is up and running 99.99% of time, without worrying about the impact of maintenance operations and outages. Azure automatically handles critical servicing tasks, such as patching, backups, Windows and SQL upgrades, and unplanned events such as underlying hardware, software, or network failures. When the underlying SQL instance is patched or fails over, the downtime is not noticeable if you employ retry logic in your app. Azure SQL Database can quickly recover even in the most critical circumstances ensuring that your data is always available.
 -  Automated Backups: SQL Database automatically creates the database backups that are kept between 7 and 35 days, and uses Azure read-access geo-redundant storage (RA-GRS) to ensure that they are preserved even if the data center is unavailable. These backups are created automatically. Database backups are an essential part of any business continuity and disaster recovery strategy because they protect your data from accidental corruption or deletion.
 -  Long-Term Backup Retention: Many applications have regulatory, compliance, or other business purposes that require you to retain database backups beyond the 7-35 days provided by Azure SQL Database automatic backups. By using the long-term retention (LTR) feature, you can store specified SQL database full backups in RA-GRS blob storage for up to 10 years. You can then restore any backup as a new database.
 -  Geo-Replication: "Auto-failover groups" is a SQL Database feature that allows you to manage replication and failover of a group of databases on a SQL Database server or all databases in a managed instance to another region. It is a declarative abstraction on top of the existing active geo-replication feature, designed to simplify deployment and management of geo-replicated databases at scale. You can initiate failover manually or you can delegate it to the SQL Database service based on a user-defined policy. The latter option allows you to automatically recover multiple related databases in a secondary region after a catastrophic failure or other unplanned event that results in full or partial loss of the SQL Database service’s availability in the primary region. A failover group can include one or multiple databases, typically used by the same application. Additionally, you can use the readable secondary databases to offload read-only query workloads. Because auto-failover groups involve multiple databases, these databases must be configured on the primary server. Auto-failover groups support replication of all databases in the group to only one secondary server in a different region.
 -  Scale Resources: Azure SQL Database enables you to dynamically add more resources to your database with minimal downtime.
