Arm-based devices are experiencing an increase in popularity. Windows supports emulation, so applications with an x64 or x86-based architecture will still run on Arm devices. However, providing an Arm-native build of your Windows application will improve performance and give your customers the best experience when using an Arm-based device. In this module, we'll cover some of the benefits of Arm, the support and toolchain available for Windows on Arm, and then walk through how to add an Arm64 build configuration for your Windows app, including testing, debugging, and troubleshooting.

## Scenario

Suppose you're a developer for a company with a popular Windows accounting application. The application's usage analytics show an increase in Windows on Arm devices using the application. You want to ensure the application is running at peak performance on all platforms; to do this, you'll work towards providing an Arm-native build.

To add the Arm64 configuration, we'll download a sample "HelloWorld" app from GitHub. You'll need to have Visual Studio 2022 installed with the .NET desktop development workload and .NET 6.0 SDK downloaded. We'll then add the configuration to your app and try running it. You can use an Arm-based device running Windows or, if you have an Azure subscription, open the Azure portal to create a virtual machine running Windows on Arm that can be used to test the new Arm-native version of your app. We'll then try debugging the new Arm version of your app using Visual Studio's remote debugging tools and look at some troubleshooting scenarios.
