Effective infrastructure management standards and processes help ensure that the teams and the systems that they manage are robust, scalable, reliable, and capable of maintaining high performance under varying demands. 

Depending on the organization, the CoE may be responsible for direct management of infrastructure components. Typically the CoE works in an advisory and monitoring capacity to evaluate, propose, and oversee best practices implemented by infrastructure teams. 

The CoE should ensure that an organization's AI workload operations team has a consistent approach to the elements used in solution infrastructure. For example, the CoE could set standards around network design elements, VM operating system and SKU configuration, container repositories and base images, subscription configuration and administrative practices. This helps an organization avoid having a set of idiosyncratic workloads that have little in common beyond the fact that they're owned by the same organization. Having common elements such as VM operating system requirements or container base images simplifies maintenance operations.

An organization's CoE can also provide guidance on dynamic resource provisioning, autoscaling, and workload lifecycle management. For example, threshold values trigger scaling events rather than having those thresholds arbitrarily determined by individual workload owners. Having a set of common standards managed by the CoE allow best practices to be determined, shared, and followed across workload teams, rather than each team rediscovering the best way of solving similar problems.
