Your team has gained an understanding of how Azure Resource Manager works, and have decided to use ARM templates for your resource provisioning. You understand there are two ways you can write ARM templates: JSON and Bicep. You want to learn more about Bicep templates so you can make an informed decision about which language to use.

In this unit, you'll learn about the Bicep template language and the benefits it provides to template authoring.

## What is Bicep?

Bicep is a Resource Manager template language used to declaratively deploy Azure resources. Bicep is a domain-specific language (DSL), which means it's designed for a specific scenario or "domain". It isn't meant to be used as a standard programming language for writing applications. Bicep is used only to create Resource Manager templates. The intention of Bicep is to be easy to understand and straightforward to learn, regardless of your experience with other programming languages. All resource types, API versions, and properties are valid in Bicep templates.

> [!NOTE]
> If you've previously looked at JSON templates, then you'll notice that Bicep simplifies the template creation experience. It provides an easier to understand syntax, better support for modularity and reusable code, and improved type safety. Creating a JSON Azure Resource Manager template requires complicated expressions and the final result can be verbose.

## Benefits of Bicep

Bicep provides many improvements over JSON when authoring templates including:

- **Simpler syntax** - Bicep provides a simpler syntax when writing templates. Parameters and variables can be referenced directly without complicated functions. String interpolation is used in place of concatenation to combine values for names and other items. You can reference the properties of a resource directly using its symbolic name instead of complex reference statements. These syntax improvements help with both the authoring and reading of Bicep templates.

- **Modules** - Complex template deployments can be broken down into smaller module files and referenced in a main template. These modules provide for easier management and greater reusability.

- **Automatic dependency management** - In most situations, Bicep will automatically detect dependencies between your resources. This process removes some of the work involved in template authoring.

- **Type validation and IntelliSense** - The Bicep extension for Visual Studio Code features rich validation and IntelliSense for all Azure resource type API definitions. This feature provides for an easier authoring experience.

Take a look at the example below of a Bicep template that defines an Azure storage account. The name of the storage account is automatically generated by the template. After deployment, the resource ID is sent back to whoever executes the template by using an output.

```bicep
param location string = resourceGroup().location
param namePrefix string = 'storage'

var storageAccountName = '${namePrefix}${uniqueString(resourceGroup().id)}'
var storageAccountSku = 'Standard_RAGRS'

resource storageAccount 'Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts@2019-06-01' = {
  name: storageAccountName
  location: location
  kind: 'StorageV2'
  sku: {
    name: storageAccountSku
  }
  properties: {
    accessTier: 'Hot'
    supportsHttpsTrafficOnly: true
  }
}

output storageAccountId string = storageAccount.id
```
