## Threat protection for Azure network layer

Security Center network-layer analytics are based on sample IPFIX data, which are packet headers collected by Azure core routers. Based on this data feed, Security Center uses machine learning models to identify and flag malicious traffic activities. Security Center also uses the Microsoft Threat Intelligence database to enrich IP addresses.

Some network configurations restrict Security Center from generating alerts on suspicious network activity. For Security Center to generate network alerts, ensure that:

- Your virtual machine has a public IP address (or is on a load balancer with a public IP address).

- Your virtual machine's network egress traffic isn't blocked by an external IDS solution.

## Threat protection for Azure Cosmos DB

The Azure Cosmos DB alerts are generated by unusual and potentially harmful attempts to access or exploit Azure Cosmos DB accounts.

## Threat protection for Azure WAF

Azure Application Gateway offers a web application firewall (WAF) that provides centralized protection of your web applications from common exploits and vulnerabilities.  Web applications are increasingly targeted by malicious attacks that exploit commonly known vulnerabilities. The Application Gateway WAF is based on Core Rule Set 3.0 or 2.2.9 from the Open Web Application Security Project. The WAF is updated automatically to protect against new vulnerabilities.

If you have a license for Azure WAF, your WAF alerts are streamed to Security Center with no extra configuration needed.

## Threat protection for Azure DDoS Protection

Distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks are known to be easy to execute. They've become a great security concern, particularly if you're moving your applications to the cloud.  A DDoS attack attempts to exhaust an application's resources, making the application unavailable to legitimate users. DDoS attacks can target any endpoint that can be reached through the internet.  To defend against DDoS attacks, purchase a license for Azure DDoS Protection and ensure you're following application design best practices. DDoS Protection provides different service tiers.

