The integration of Artificial Intelligence and generative AI into businesses has led to the  emergence of new specialized roles essential for leveraging AI technologies effectively. Just as organizations once required specialized roles to navigate and master digital transformation, they now need dedicated leaders to drive the adoption, integration, and governance of AI. Part of a generative AI CoE's responsibilities are to determine whether new roles are required within the organization and the scope of those roles. 

A generative AI CoE should spend time determining the appropriate scope and responsibilities of the roles that will be required for an organization's generative AI adoption to be successful. Some roles that a generative AI CoE may consider include:

## Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer (CAIO)

The CAIO aligns AI initiatives with organizational goals to provide a competitive edge. This role oversees the deployment and integration of AI technologies, ensuring the AI strategy is developed, implemented, and communicated throughout the organization. The CAIO also ensures AI implementation complies with the organization's approach to responsible AI. Acting as a bridge between technical and business areas, the CAIO helps the organization recognize AI's value while addressing its challenges.

## Head of Generative AI

Given generative AI's significance, impact, and potential, it requires dedicated attention within the broader AI landscape. While generative AI is often seen as easy to use and straightforward to implement, this perception can overlook the unique challenges and organizational implications generative AI brings. Organizations may benefit from creating a distinct leadership role focused exclusively on generative AI, such as a Head of Generative AI. This role reports to senior leadership, ensuring strategic alignment and overseeing the implementation and governance of generative AI initiatives.

## Generative AI technical roles

Foundational AI roles like Data Scientists, ML Engineers, AI Architects, and NLP Engineers are still essential. However, the rise of generative AI necessitates an evolution in their skills and responsibilities. Employees with the following technical specializations are also likely to be needed to meet the unique challenges posed by large language models and generative systems when deployed to meet business objectives.

- Prompt Engineer. A Prompt Engineer designs and optimizes inputs for generative AI models to guide their behavior and produce accurate, desired outputs. Combining creativity and technical skill, they leverage in-context learning to enable models to perform tasks without extra training. Their work involves crafting clear instructions, experimenting with prompts, and iterating based on results, incorporating elements like role definitions, system instructions, and examples. The goal is to enhance the performance and reliability of large language models (LLMs) through effective prompt design.
- AI Agent Engineers. An AI Agent Engineer develops and optimizes autonomous AI systems that can perceive, reason, and act to achieve specific goals. They design architectures, integrate machine learning models, and program decision-making processes to enable agents to interact with environments, adapt to new tasks, and perform complex functions. 
- Generative AI Security engineer. A security practitioner who is able to apply appropriate security controls to harden generative AI applications from common attacks. Generative AI security engineers are also able to control the access of generative AI applications to organizational resources so that those applications only have access to appropriate data.

Generative AI Operations. IT operations professionals who understand how to deploy, manage, monitor, backup, and recover AI workloads. Generative AI Operations is responsible for managing the performance of AI workloads, balancing the performance of the workloads against the cost of running those workloads. Small and medium enterprises may not initially have the capability to create and hire for new organizational roles dedicated to AI technologies. Instead, they should ensure that generative AI responsibilities are clearly understood and assigned to existing leadership or key employees. Successful generative AI deployment requires a team or a virtual team who can dedicate time to upskilling, and align AI initiatives with business goals.
