Surface Laptop 13-inch offers flexibility, manageability, and performance for modern business users. This device is ideal for information workers and those in the education sector (specifically those in higher education).

- **Information Workers:** Imagine you're a consultant, often visiting different clients and collaborating with partners from various locations. Performance, portability, and battery life are essential to get your work done. Surface Laptop 13-inch meets these requirements, offering AI-powered communication tools like Windows Studio Effects for better collaboration and efficient communication. Users also benefit from flexible connectivity options, allowing them to get work done across various travel scenarios.
- **IT decision makers:** When IT departments are looking for new devices for their teams, they focus on easy deployment and management. Surface Laptop 13-inch offers configurable settings with compatibility with Microsoft Intune and Windows Autopilot—making deployment both easy and secure. Surface Laptop 13-inch prioritizes data security, making it an ideal solution for the teams that IT decision makers are deploying devices to. For managing deployed Surface devices, IT decision makers have access to Surface Management Portal—providing vital data and device insights in a centralized location, allowing issues to be addressed before they escalate.
- **Education:** Imagine you're a student looking to balance your course load between school and home. A laptop for you needs to maintain reliable performance and last your entire day. With the Qualcomm Snapdragon X Plus (8-core) X1P-42-100 processor and dedicated Neural Processing Unit, Surface Laptop 13-inch has the power to organize your assignments and notes, with build quality that supports frequent use and a battery that supports up to 23 hours of local video playback1 and up to 16 hours2 of active web usage.

Whether in scenarios across a distributed workforce or in the hands of students and faculty, Surface Laptop 13-inch helps user remain flexible and accomplish their tasks efficiently.

## Disclaimers

- Based on local video playback test. Testing conducted by Microsoft in March 2025 using preproduction software and preproduction Surface Laptop for Business, Copilot+ PC, 13-inch Snapdragon X Plus (8 Core) 1st Edition 256 GB, 16 GB RAM devices. Testing consisted of full battery discharge during video playback of an .mov file through the Windows Media Player application in 1080p at 24 FPS (frames per second). All settings were default except screen brightness set to 150 units with Auto brightness disabled. Wi-Fi was connected to a network. Battery life varies significantly with settings, usage, and other factors.
- Based on a web browsing test. Testing conducted by Microsoft in March 2025 using preproduction software and preproduction Surface Laptop for Business Copilot+ PC, 13-inch Snapdragon X Plus (8 Core) 1st Edition 256 GB, 16 GB RAM devices. Testing consisted of full battery discharge while accessing eight popular websites over multiple open tabs through the browser. All settings were default except screen brightness set to 150 nits with Auto-Brightness disabled. Wi-Fi was connected to a network. Battery life varies significantly with settings, usage, and other factors.
