learn-pr/azure/connect-iot-hololens-azure-digital-twins-unity/includes/13-summary.md, before:

Bringing operations data to a Digital Twin extends the Mixed Reality experience from a visualization-only situation to a rich, data-driven immersive experience.  Often, data is in disparate silos within organizations and Engineers, scientists, and operators struggle to assemble a holistic narrative around an asset.  The solution you built demonstrates the ability to connect remote assets to ADT, ultimately providing an immersive Mixed Reality experience.  By combining Microsoft software, Azure cloud services, and the Unity platform with the mixed reality devices, you created a Digital Twin experience that provides the right data, in the right context, at the right time.

Connecting right time data to 3D assets using ADT involves many steps.  You can semi-automate the creation of the required Azure services and configuration by using ARM templates.  The ARM templates, through Bicep scripting, automate the creation of key Azure Resource Groups and Resources, simplifying their creation and configuration, permitting standardizing and large-scale distributions within organizations.  Live operations data is often high volume, rapidly changing, and diverse.  Azure IoT and ADT services help the ingestion and connectivity of your Digital Twins in Unity to provide a connected, immersive, and timely data experience.  

Observing streaming data in an immersive setting can be powerful.  Data patterns and correlations can be observed and experienced in Mixed Reality as opposed to being inferred from tabular data and reports.  By connecting a Digital Twin to ADT, you can identify anomalies and take action directly from within mixed reality. 

## References

* [Sign in with the Azure CLI](/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli)
* [SignalR Service – Real-time web](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/signalr-service/)
* [Azure Functions serverless computes](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/)
* [Introduction to Azure IoT Hub](/azure/iot-hub/about-iot-hub)
* [Azure Resource Manager overview](/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/overview)
* [ScriptableObject](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/class-ScriptableObject.html)
* [Architect your code for efficient changes and debugging with ScriptableObjects ](https://unity.com/how-to/architect-game-code-scriptable-objects#architect-events)
* [Addressables](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/com.unity.addressables.html)
* [Getting started with Addressables](https://learn.unity.com/project/getting-started-with-addressables)
* [Addressables: Content updates](https://learn.unity.com/tutorial/addressables-content-updates#5fea2b2bedbc2a4cc8a07edf)

Commit message:

AB#576392 - Add link to delete resources at EOM per cx feedback

learn-pr/azure/connect-iot-hololens-azure-digital-twins-unity/includes/13-summary.md, after:

Bringing operations data to a Digital Twin extends the Mixed Reality experience from a visualization-only situation to a rich, data-driven immersive experience.  Often, data is in disparate silos within organizations and Engineers, scientists, and operators struggle to assemble a holistic narrative around an asset.  The solution you built demonstrates the ability to connect remote assets to ADT, ultimately providing an immersive Mixed Reality experience.  By combining Microsoft software, Azure cloud services, and the Unity platform with the mixed reality devices, you created a Digital Twin experience that provides the right data, in the right context, at the right time.

Connecting right time data to 3D assets using ADT involves many steps.  You can semi-automate the creation of the required Azure services and configuration by using ARM templates.  The ARM templates, through Bicep scripting, automate the creation of key Azure Resource Groups and Resources, simplifying their creation and configuration, permitting standardizing and large-scale distributions within organizations.  Live operations data is often high volume, rapidly changing, and diverse.  Azure IoT and ADT services help the ingestion and connectivity of your Digital Twins in Unity to provide a connected, immersive, and timely data experience.  

Observing streaming data in an immersive setting can be powerful.  Data patterns and correlations can be observed and experienced in Mixed Reality as opposed to being inferred from tabular data and reports.  By connecting a Digital Twin to ADT, you can identify anomalies and take action directly from within mixed reality.

Now that you've completed this module, you can [clean up your resources in Azure](azure/azure-resource-manager/management/manage-resources-portal#delete-resources).

## References

* [Sign in with the Azure CLI](/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli)
* [SignalR Service – Real-time web](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/signalr-service/)
* [Azure Functions serverless computes](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/)
* [Introduction to Azure IoT Hub](/azure/iot-hub/about-iot-hub)
* [Azure Resource Manager overview](/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/overview)
* [ScriptableObject](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/class-ScriptableObject.html)
* [Architect your code for efficient changes and debugging with ScriptableObjects ](https://unity.com/how-to/architect-game-code-scriptable-objects#architect-events)
* [Addressables](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/com.unity.addressables.html)
* [Getting started with Addressables](https://learn.unity.com/project/getting-started-with-addressables)
* [Addressables: Content updates](https://learn.unity.com/tutorial/addressables-content-updates#5fea2b2bedbc2a4cc8a07edf)
