Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a vital part of Amazon's cloud computing platform, Amazon Web Services (AWS). On August 25, 2006, Amazon launched EC2, which together with Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) marked a change in the way IT was done. Amazon EC2 is a highly reliable and scalable infrastructure as a service (IaaS) with a utility payment model. It allows users to rent virtual machines (VMs) and pay for the resources that they actually consume. Users can set up and configure everything in their VMs, ranging from the operating system to any application. Specifically, a user can boot an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) to create a VM, referred to in Amazon's parlance as an **instance**. AMI is a virtual appliance (or a VM image) that contains the user's operating system, applications, libraries, data, and associated configuration settings. 

Users can create EC2 instances either by using default AMIs prepackaged by Amazon or by developing their own AMIs using Amazon's bundling tools. Default AMIs are preconfigured with an ever-growing list of operating systems, including Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Windows Server, and Ubuntu. A wide selection of free software provided by Amazon can also be directly incorporated into AMIs and executed over EC2 instances. For example, Amazon provides software for databases (e.g., Microsoft SQL Server), application servers (e.g., Tomcat Java Web Application), content management (e.g., MediaWiki), and business intelligence (e.g., JasperReports). Added to the wide assortment of free software, Amazon services (e.g., Amazon Relational Database Service, which supports MySQL, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL databases) can be further employed in conjunction with EC2 instances. Finally, users can always configure, install, and run at any time any compatible software on EC2 instances, exactly as is the case with regular physical machines.

## Amazon EC2 virtualization technology

Amazon EC2 demonstrates the power of cloud computing. Under the hood, it is a marvel of technology. As of March 2012, it <!-- presumably hosts -->was hosting around 7,100 server racks with a total of 454,400 blade servers, assuming 64 blade servers per rack.<sup>[1][^1]</sup> Above its datacenters, Amazon EC2 presents a true virtualization environment using the Xen hypervisor. Xen is a leading example of system virtualization, initially developed as part of the Xenoserver project at the Computer Laboratory, Cambridge University.<sup>[2][^2]</sup> Currently, Xen is maintained by an open-source community.<sup>[3][^3]</sup> The goal of Xen is to provide IaaS with full isolation and minimal performance overhead on conventional hardware. As discussed previously in this unit, Xen is a native hypervisor that runs on bare metal at the most privileged CPU state. Amazon EC2 uses a highly customized version of Xen<sup>[4][^4]</sup><!-- supposedly --> to provision and isolate user instances rapidly, consolidate instances to improve system utilization, tolerate software and hardware failures by saving and migrating instances, apply system load balancing through live and seamless migration of instances, and more.

<!-- Remove reference to Fig 1.25
     ... can be instantiated with guest OSs (see Fig. 1.25)
-->
Amazon EC2 instances can be created, launched, suspended, resumed, and terminated as needed. The instances are system VMs composed of virtualized (or paravirtualized) sets of physical resources, including CPU, memory, and I/O components. To create instances, Xen starts a highly privileged instance (domain 0) at a host OS out of which other user instances (domain U) can be instantiated with guest OSs. Amazon EC2's guest OSs are run in a lower-privileged ring than the host OS and the hypervisor. Clearly, this helps isolate the hypervisor from guest OSs and isolate guest OSs from each other, a key requirement on Amazon AWS's cloud platform. Nonetheless, running guest OSs in unprivileged mode violates the usual assumption that OSs must run in system mode. To circumvent ramifications, Xen applies a paravirtualized approach whereby guest OSs are modified to run at a downgraded privilege level. As a result, sensitive instructions are forced to trap to the hypervisor for verification and execution. Linux instances on Amazon EC2 use Xen's paravirtualized mode.<sup>[5][^5],</sup><sup>[6][^6]</sup>  Upon provisioning instances, Xen provides each instance with its own vCPU(s) and associated ISA. The complexity of this step depends entirely on the architecture of the underlying pCPU(s). To this end, it is not clear what vCPU scheduler Amazon EC2 applies, but Xen's default scheduler is the Credit Scheduler (as discussed in the _Resource virtualization: CPU_ module).

<!-- Remove reference to Fig 1.25
     ... using a shared memory communication paradigm as demonstrated in Fig. 1.25
-->
Memory and I/O resources are virtualized in Xen in a way similar to that described in the _Resource virtualization: Memory_ module. First, Xen uses a two-level page mapping method. Second, the hardware page tables are allocated and managed by guest OSs, with a minimal involvement from the hypervisor.<sup>[5][^5]</sup> Speciﬁcally, guest OSs can read directly from hardware page tables, but writes are intercepted and validated by the Xen hypervisor to ensure safety and isolation. For performance reasons, however, the guest OSs can batch write requests to amortize the overhead of passing by the hypervisor for every write request. Finally, with Xen, existing hardware I/O devices are not emulated as is typically done in fully virtualized environments. In contrast, I/O requests are always transferred from user instances to domain 0, and vice versa, by using a shared memory communication paradigm. At domain 0, device drivers of the host OS are borrowed to handle the I/O requests.
<br>
***
### References

1. _H. Liu (2012). [Amazon Data Center Size](https://huanliu.wordpress.com/2012/03/13/amazon-data-center-size/) March 2012_
2. _G. Coulouris, J. Dollimore, T. Kindberg, and G. Blair (May 2011). [Distributed Systems: Concepts and Design](https://ce.guilan.ac.ir/images/other/soft/distribdystems.pdf) Addison-Wesley, 5 Edition_
3. _[Xen Open Source Community](http://www.xen.org)_
4. _[Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/)_
5. _F. Zhou, M. Goel, P. Desnoyers, and R. Sundaram (March 2011). [Scheduler Vulnerabilities and Attacks in Cloud Computing](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/50251994_Scheduler_Vulnerabilities_and_Attacks_in_Cloud_Computing)_
6. _C. Boulton (Serverwatch, 2007). [Novell Microsoft Outline Virtual Collaboration](http://www.internetnews.com/dev-news/article.php/3659331)_

[^1]: <https://huanliu.wordpress.com/2012/03/13/amazon-data-center-size/> "H. Liu (2012). *Amazon Data Center Size*"
[^2]: <https://ce.guilan.ac.ir/images/other/soft/distribdystems.pdf> "G. Coulouris, J. Dollimore, T. Kindberg, and G. Blair (May 2011). *Distributed Systems: Concepts and Design*"
[^3]: <http://www.xen.org> "Xen Open Source Community"
[^4]: <https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/> "Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud"
[^5]: <https://www.researchgate.net/publication/50251994_Scheduler_Vulnerabilities_and_Attacks_in_Cloud_Computing>  "F. Zhou, M. Goel, P. Desnoyers, and R. Sundaram (March 2011). *Scheduler Vulnerabilities and Attacks in Cloud Computing*"
[^6]: <http://www.internetnews.com/dev-news/article.php/3659331> "C. Boulton (Serverwatch, 2007). *Novell Microsoft Outline Virtual Collaboration*"
