learn-pr/azure/create-serverless-logic-with-azure-functions/includes/5-add-logic-to-the-function-app.md, before:

Let's continue with our gear drive example, and add the logic for the temperature service. Specifically, we're going to receive data from an HTTP request.

## Function requirements

First, we need to define some requirements for our logic:

- Temperatures from 0 up to 25 degrees should be flagged as **OK**.
- Temperatures above 25 up to 50 degrees should be flagged as **CAUTION**.
- Temperatures above 50 degrees should be flagged as **DANGER**.

## Add a function to your function app

As we described in the preceding unit, Azure provides templates that help you build functions. In this unit, we'll use the `HttpTrigger` template to implement the temperature service.

1. In the previous exercise, you deployed your function app and opened it. If it isn't already open, you can open it from the Home page by selecting **All resources**, and then selecting your function app, named something like **escalator-functions-xxx**.

1. In the Function App menu, under **Functions**, select **Functions**. The **Functions** pane appears. This lists any functions you defined for your function app.

1. In the command bar, select **Create**. The **Create function** pane appears.

1. Under **Select a template**, select *HTTP trigger*.

::: zone pivot="javascript"

5. Select **Create**. The **HttpTrigger1** is created and displays in the **HttpTrigger1** Function pane.

1. In the Developer menu on the left, select **Code + Test**. The code editor opens, displaying the contents of the *index.js* code file for your function. The default code that the HTTP template generated appears in the following snippet.

    ```javascript
    module.exports = async function (context, req) {
        context.log('JavaScript HTTP trigger function processed a request.');

        const name = (req.query.name || (req.body && req.body.name));
        const responseMessage = name
            ? "Hello, " + name + ". This HTTP triggered function executed successfully."
            : "This HTTP triggered function executed successfully. Pass a name on the query string or in the request body for a personalized response.";

        context.res = {
            // status: 200, /* Defaults to 200 */
            body: responseMessage
        };
    }
    ```

    Your function expects a name to be passed in either through the HTTP request query string, or as part of the request body. The function responds by returning the message **Hello, \<name>. This HTTP triggered function executed successfully.**, echoing back the *name* that was sent in the request.

    From the source file dropdown list, select **function.json** to view the configuration of the function, which should look like the following code.

    ```javascript
    {
      "bindings": [
        {
          "authLevel": "function",
          "type": "httpTrigger",
          "direction": "in",
          "name": "req",
          "methods": [
            "get",
            "post"
          ]
        },
        {
          "type": "http",
          "direction": "out",
          "name": "res"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    This configuration file declares that the function runs when it receives an HTTP request. The output binding declares that the response will be sent as an HTTP response.

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="powershell"

5. In the **Template details** section, in the **New Function** field, enter *DriveGearTemperatureService*. Leave the **Authorization level** as *Function*, and then select **Create** to create the function. The Overview pane for your *DriveGearTemperatureService* Function appears.

1. In the Function menu, select **Code + Test**. The code editor opens with the contents of the *run.ps1* code file. The default code that the template generated for us is listed in the following snippet.

    ```powershell
    using namespace System.Net

    # Input bindings are passed in via param block.
    param($Request, $TriggerMetadata)

    # Write to the Azure Functions log stream.
    Write-Host "PowerShell HTTP trigger function processed a request."

    # Interact with query parameters or the body of the request.
    $name = $Request.Query.Name
    if (-not $name) {
        $name = $Request.Body.Name
    }

    $body = "This HTTP triggered function executed successfully. Pass a name in the query string or in the request body for a personalized response."

    if ($name) {
        $body = "Hello, $name. This HTTP triggered function executed successfully."
    }

    # Associate values to output bindings by calling 'Push-OutputBinding'.
    Push-OutputBinding -Name Response -Value ([HttpResponseContext]@{
        StatusCode = [HttpStatusCode]::OK
        Body = $body
    })
    ```

    Our function expects a name to be passed in either through the HTTP request query string, or as part of the request body. HTTP functions must generate a response by writing to their output binding, which is accomplished in PowerShell Functions with the `Push-OutputBinding` cmdlet. This function returns the message **Hello, $name**, echoing back the name that was sent in the request.

1. From the source dropdown list, select **function.json** to view the configuration of the function, which should look like the following.

    ```json
    {
      "bindings": [
        {
          "authLevel": "function",
          "type": "httpTrigger",
          "direction": "in",
          "name": "Request",
          "methods": [
            "get",
            "post"
          ]
        },
        {
          "type": "http",
          "direction": "out",
          "name": "Response"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    This configuration declares that the function runs when it receives an HTTP request. The output binding declares that the response will be sent as an HTTP response.

::: zone-end

## Test the function

> [!TIP]
> **cURL** is a command line tool that can be used to send or receive files. It's included with Linux, macOS, and Windows 10, and can be downloaded for most other operating systems. cURL supports numerous protocols like HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, FTPS, SFTP, LDAP, TELNET, SMTP, POP3, and so on. For more information, see the following links:
>
>- <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CURL>
>- <https://curl.haxx.se/docs/>

To test the function, you can send an HTTP request to the function URL using cURL on the command line.

1. Expand the **Logs** frame at the bottom of the trigger function pane. Select **Filesystem Logs** in the drop-down at the top of the Logs frame. The log frame should start accruing trace notifications every minute.

1. To find the endpoint URL of the function, from the command bar, select **Get function URL**, as shown in the following image. Save this link by selecting the *Copy to clipboard* icon at the end of the URL. Store this link in Notepad or a similar app for later use.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/5-get-function-url.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Azure portal showing the function editor, with the Get function URL button highlighted." lightbox="../media/5-get-function-url.png":::

### Secure HTTP triggers

HTTP triggers let you use API keys to block unknown callers by requiring a key as part of the request. When you create a function, you select the _authorization level_. By default, it's set to *Function*, which requires a function-specific API key, but it can also be set to *Admin* to use a global "master" key, or *Anonymous* to indicate that no key is required. You can also change the authorization level through the function properties after creation.

Because you specified *Function* when you created this function, you need to supply the key when you send the HTTP request. You can send it as a query string parameter named `code`, or as an HTTP header (preferred) named `x-functions-key`.

1. To find the function and master keys, in the Function App menu, under **Developer**, select **Function Keys**. The Function Keys pane for your function opens.

1. By default the function key value is hidden. Show the default function key value by selecting *Hidden value. Click to show value* in the **Value**. Copy the value to the clipboard, and then store this key in Notepad or a similar app for later use.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/5-get-function-key.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Function Keys pane with the revealed function key highlighted." lightbox="../media/5-get-function-key.png" :::

1. At the bottom of the screen, scroll to the left, and select your function. At the top, under the **Get Function Url** section, copy your **URL** by selecting the *Copy to clipboard* icon at the end of the URL. Store this link in Notepad or a similar app for later use.

1. Next, scroll to the left, and from the Function App menu, under **Functions**, select **Functions**, and then select **HttpTrigger1** (or **DriveGearTemperatureService** for PowerShell). The **HttpTrigger1** (or **DriveGearTemperatureService** for PowerShell) Function pane appears.

1. In the left menu pane, under **Developer**, select **Code + Test**. The **Code + Test** pane appears for your *HttpTrigger1* (or *DriveGearTemperatureService* for PowerShell) function.

1. On the command bar, select **Test/Run**. A pane showing the input parameters for running a test.

1. In the **Body** text box, overwrite the embedded code by replacing line 2 in the **Body** with the cURL command below, replacing `<your-function-key>` with the function key value you saved, and replacing `<your-https-url>` with the URL of your function.

    ```bash
    curl --header "Content-Type: application/json" --header "x-functions-key: <your-function-key>" --request POST --data "{\"name\": \"Azure Function\"}" <your-https-url>
    ```

1. Review the cURL command and verify that it has the following values:

    - Added a `Content-Type` header value of type `application/json`.
    - Passed the Function Key as the header value `x-functions-key`.
    - Used a `POST` request.
    - Passed the Azure Function with the URL for your function.

1. Select **Run**.

    The **Code + Test** pane should open a session displaying log file output (ensure **Filesystem Logs** is selected in the drop-down at the top of the **Logs** pane). The log file updates with the status of your request, which should look something like this for JavaScript:

    ```output
    2022-02-16T22:34:10.473 [Information] Executing 'Functions.HttpTrigger1' (Reason='This function was programmatically called via the host APIs.', Id=4f503b35-b944-455e-ba02-5205f9e8b47a)
    2022-02-16T22:34:10.539 [Information] JavaScript HTTP trigger function processed a request.
    2022-02-16T22:34:10.562 [Information] Executed 'Functions.HttpTrigger1' (Succeeded, Id=4f503b35-b944-455e-ba02-5205f9e8b47a, Duration=114ms)
    ```

    and something like this for PowerShell:

    ```output
    2022-02-16T21:07:11.340 [Information] INFORMATION: PowerShell HTTP trigger function processed a request.
    2022-02-16T21:07:11.449 [Information] Executed 'Functions.DriveGearTemperatureService' (Succeeded, Id=25e2edc3-542f-4629-a152-cf9ed99680d8, Duration=1164ms)
    ```

    Under the **Output** pane, for **HTTP response code**, the function responds with the text `200 OK`.

    > [!CAUTION]
    > If you are on Windows, run `cURL` from the command prompt. PowerShell has a *curl* command, but it's an alias for Invoke-WebRequest, and is not the same as `cURL`.

    > [!NOTE]
    > The **Code/Test** function may open an *Input/Output* pane in a different configuration, with the log file appearing on the side of a selected function. If so, you won't be able to verify the function key system is working, as it is not required. Add the appropriate header and parameter values in the Test interface, and select **Run** to see the test output.

## Add business logic to the function

Let's add the logic to the function, to check temperature readings that it receives, and set a status for each temperature reading.

Our function is expecting an array of temperature readings. The following JSON snippet is an example of the request body that we'll send to our function. Each `reading` entry has an ID, timestamp, and temperature.

```json
{
    "readings": [
        {
            "driveGearId": 1,
            "timestamp": 1534263995,
            "temperature": 23
        },
        {
            "driveGearId": 3,
            "timestamp": 1534264048,
            "temperature": 45
        },
        {
            "driveGearId": 18,
            "timestamp": 1534264050,
            "temperature": 55
        }
    ]
}
```

Let's replace the default code in our function with the following code, to implement our business logic.

::: zone pivot="javascript"

In the **HttpTrigger1** function pane, open the **index.js** file, and replace it with the following code. After making this change, on the command bar, select **Save** to save the updates to the file.

```javascript
module.exports = function (context, req) {
    context.log('Drive Gear Temperature Service triggered');
    if (req.body && req.body.readings) {
        req.body.readings.forEach(function(reading) {

            if(reading.temperature<=25) {
                reading.status = 'OK';
            } else if (reading.temperature<=50) {
                reading.status = 'CAUTION';
            } else {
                reading.status = 'DANGER'
            }
            context.log('Reading is ' + reading.status);
        });

        context.res = {
            // status: 200, /* Defaults to 200 */
            body: {
                "readings": req.body.readings
            }
        };
    }
    else {
        context.res = {
            status: 400,
            body: "Please send an array of readings in the request body"
        };
    }
    context.done();
};
```

The logic we added is straightforward. We iterate through the array and set the status as **OK**, **CAUTION**, or **DANGER** based on the value of the temperature field. We then send back the array of readings with a status field added to each entry.

Notice the `Log` statements when you expand **Logs** at the bottom of the pane. When the function runs, these statements will add messages in the Logs window.

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="powershell"

Open the **run.ps1** file, and replace the contents with the following code. After making this change, on the command bar, select **Save** to save the updates to the file.

```powershell
using namespace System.Net

param($Request, $TriggerMetadata)

Write-Host "Drive Gear Temperature Service triggered"

$readings = $Request.Body.Readings
if ($readings) {
    foreach ($reading in $readings) {
        if ($reading.temperature -le 25) {
            $reading.Status = "OK"
        }
        elseif ($reading.temperature -le 50) {
            $reading.Status = "CAUTION"
        }
        else {
            $reading.Status = "DANGER"
        }

        Write-Host "Reading is $($reading.Status)"
    }

    $status = [HttpStatusCode]::OK
    $body = $readings
}
else {
    $status = [HttpStatusCode]::BadRequest
    $body = "Please send an array of readings in the request body"
}

Push-OutputBinding -Name Response -Value ([HttpResponseContext]@{
    StatusCode = $status
    Body = $body
})
```

The logic we added is straightforward. We iterate through the array and set the status as **OK**, **CAUTION**, or **DANGER** based on the value of the temperature field. We then send back the array of readings with a status field added to each entry.

Note the calls to the `Write-Host` cmdlet. When the function runs, these statements will add messages in the Logs window.

::: zone-end

## Test our business logic

We're going to use the **Test/Run** feature in *Developer* > *Code + Test* to test our function.

1. In the **Input** tab, replace the contents of the **Body** text box with the following code to create our sample request.

    ```json
    {
        "readings": [
            {
                "driveGearId": 1,
                "timestamp": 1534263995,
                "temperature": 23
            },
            {
                "driveGearId": 3,
                "timestamp": 1534264048,
                "temperature": 45
            },
            {
                "driveGearId": 18,
                "timestamp": 1534264050,
                "temperature": 55
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

1. Select **Run**. The **Output** tab displays the HTTP response code and content. To see log messages, open the **Logs** tab in the bottom flyout of the pane (if it is not already open). The following image shows an example response in the output pane and messages in the **Logs** pane.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/5-portal-testing.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Azure function editor, with the Test and Logs tabs showing." lightbox="../media/5-portal-testing.png":::  

    The **Output** tab shows that a status field has been correctly added to each of the readings.

1. In the Developer menu on the left, select **Monitor** to see that the request has been logged to Application Insights. The **Monitor** pane appears for your function.

1. Select **Configure**. The **Application Insights** pane appears for your trigger function. Select **Turn on Application Insights**.

1. In the **New resource name** field, select your function app, and in the **Location** field, select the region you initially associated with your function app.

1. Select **Apply**, then select **Yes**.

Commit message:

adds curl example for unit 5

learn-pr/azure/create-serverless-logic-with-azure-functions/includes/5-add-logic-to-the-function-app.md, after:

Let's continue with our gear drive example, and add the logic for the temperature service. Specifically, we're going to receive data from an HTTP request.

## Function requirements

First, we need to define some requirements for our logic:

- Temperatures from 0 up to 25 degrees should be flagged as **OK**.
- Temperatures above 25 up to 50 degrees should be flagged as **CAUTION**.
- Temperatures above 50 degrees should be flagged as **DANGER**.

## Add a function to your function app

As we described in the preceding unit, Azure provides templates that help you build functions. In this unit, we'll use the `HttpTrigger` template to implement the temperature service.

1. In the previous exercise, you deployed your function app and opened it. If it isn't already open, you can open it from the Home page by selecting **All resources**, and then selecting your function app, named something like **escalator-functions-xxx**.

1. In the Function App menu, under **Functions**, select **Functions**. The **Functions** pane appears. This lists any functions you defined for your function app.

1. In the command bar, select **Create**. The **Create function** pane appears.

1. Under **Select a template**, select *HTTP trigger*.

::: zone pivot="javascript"

5. Select **Create**. The **HttpTrigger1** is created and displays in the **HttpTrigger1** Function pane.

1. In the Developer menu on the left, select **Code + Test**. The code editor opens, displaying the contents of the *index.js* code file for your function. The default code that the HTTP template generated appears in the following snippet.

    ```javascript
    module.exports = async function (context, req) {
        context.log('JavaScript HTTP trigger function processed a request.');

        const name = (req.query.name || (req.body && req.body.name));
        const responseMessage = name
            ? "Hello, " + name + ". This HTTP triggered function executed successfully."
            : "This HTTP triggered function executed successfully. Pass a name on the query string or in the request body for a personalized response.";

        context.res = {
            // status: 200, /* Defaults to 200 */
            body: responseMessage
        };
    }
    ```

    Your function expects a name to be passed in either through the HTTP request query string, or as part of the request body. The function responds by returning the message **Hello, \<name>. This HTTP triggered function executed successfully.**, echoing back the *name* that was sent in the request.

    From the source file dropdown list, select **function.json** to view the configuration of the function, which should look like the following code.

    ```javascript
    {
      "bindings": [
        {
          "authLevel": "function",
          "type": "httpTrigger",
          "direction": "in",
          "name": "req",
          "methods": [
            "get",
            "post"
          ]
        },
        {
          "type": "http",
          "direction": "out",
          "name": "res"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    This configuration file declares that the function runs when it receives an HTTP request. The output binding declares that the response will be sent as an HTTP response.

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="powershell"

5. In the **Template details** section, in the **New Function** field, enter *DriveGearTemperatureService*. Leave the **Authorization level** as *Function*, and then select **Create** to create the function. The Overview pane for your *DriveGearTemperatureService* Function appears.

1. In the Function menu, select **Code + Test**. The code editor opens with the contents of the *run.ps1* code file. The default code that the template generated for us is listed in the following snippet.

    ```powershell
    using namespace System.Net

    # Input bindings are passed in via param block.
    param($Request, $TriggerMetadata)

    # Write to the Azure Functions log stream.
    Write-Host "PowerShell HTTP trigger function processed a request."

    # Interact with query parameters or the body of the request.
    $name = $Request.Query.Name
    if (-not $name) {
        $name = $Request.Body.Name
    }

    $body = "This HTTP triggered function executed successfully. Pass a name in the query string or in the request body for a personalized response."

    if ($name) {
        $body = "Hello, $name. This HTTP triggered function executed successfully."
    }

    # Associate values to output bindings by calling 'Push-OutputBinding'.
    Push-OutputBinding -Name Response -Value ([HttpResponseContext]@{
        StatusCode = [HttpStatusCode]::OK
        Body = $body
    })
    ```

    Our function expects a name to be passed in either through the HTTP request query string, or as part of the request body. HTTP functions must generate a response by writing to their output binding, which is accomplished in PowerShell Functions with the `Push-OutputBinding` cmdlet. This function returns the message **Hello, $name**, echoing back the name that was sent in the request.

1. From the source dropdown list, select **function.json** to view the configuration of the function, which should look like the following.

    ```json
    {
      "bindings": [
        {
          "authLevel": "function",
          "type": "httpTrigger",
          "direction": "in",
          "name": "Request",
          "methods": [
            "get",
            "post"
          ]
        },
        {
          "type": "http",
          "direction": "out",
          "name": "Response"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    This configuration declares that the function runs when it receives an HTTP request. The output binding declares that the response will be sent as an HTTP response.

::: zone-end

## Test the function

> [!TIP]
> **cURL** is a command line tool that can be used to send or receive files. It's included with Linux, macOS, and Windows 10, and can be downloaded for most other operating systems. cURL supports numerous protocols like HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, FTPS, SFTP, LDAP, TELNET, SMTP, POP3, and so on. For more information, see the following links:
>
>- <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CURL>
>- <https://curl.haxx.se/docs/>

To test the function, you can send an HTTP request to the function URL using cURL on the command line.

1. Expand the **Logs** frame at the bottom of the trigger function pane. Select **Filesystem Logs** in the drop-down at the top of the Logs frame. The log frame should start accruing trace notifications every minute.

1. To find the endpoint URL of the function, from the command bar, select **Get function URL**, as shown in the following image. Save this link by selecting the *Copy to clipboard* icon at the end of the URL. Store this link in Notepad or a similar app for later use.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/5-get-function-url.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Azure portal showing the function editor, with the Get function URL button highlighted." lightbox="../media/5-get-function-url.png":::

1. Open a command prompt and run cURL to send an HTTP request to the function URL. Keep in mind to use the URL that you copied in the previous step.

    ```bash
    curl "https://<function-name>.azurewebsites.net/api/HttpTrigger1?code=<function-code>"
    ```

    The response should look like the following.

    ```bash
    This HTTP triggered function executed successfully. Pass a name on the query string or in the request body for a personalized response.
    ```

    Now pass a name in the request. To do that, you need to add a query string parameter named `name` to the URL. The following example adds the query string parameter `name=Azure`.

    ```bash
    curl "https://<function-name>.azurewebsites.net/api/HttpTrigger1?code=<function-code>&name=Azure"
    ```

    The response should look like the following.

    ```bash
    Hello, Azure. This HTTP triggered function executed successfully.
    ```

    The function executed successfully and returned the name that you passed in the request.

### Secure HTTP triggers

HTTP triggers let you use API keys to block unknown callers by requiring a key as part of the request. When you create a function, you select the _authorization level_. By default, it's set to *Function*, which requires a function-specific API key, but it can also be set to *Admin* to use a global "master" key, or *Anonymous* to indicate that no key is required. You can also change the authorization level through the function properties after creation.

Because you specified *Function* when you created this function, you need to supply the key when you send the HTTP request. You can send it as a query string parameter named `code`, or as an HTTP header (preferred) named `x-functions-key`.

1. To find the function and master keys, in the Function App menu, under **Developer**, select **Function Keys**. The Function Keys pane for your function opens.

1. By default the function key value is hidden. Show the default function key value by selecting *Hidden value. Click to show value* in the **Value**. Copy the value to the clipboard, and then store this key in Notepad or a similar app for later use.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/5-get-function-key.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Function Keys pane with the revealed function key highlighted." lightbox="../media/5-get-function-key.png" :::

1. At the bottom of the screen, scroll to the left, and select your function. At the top, under the **Get Function Url** section, copy your **URL** by selecting the *Copy to clipboard* icon at the end of the URL. Store this link in Notepad or a similar app for later use.

1. Next, scroll to the left, and from the Function App menu, under **Functions**, select **Functions**, and then select **HttpTrigger1** (or **DriveGearTemperatureService** for PowerShell). The **HttpTrigger1** (or **DriveGearTemperatureService** for PowerShell) Function pane appears.

1. In the left menu pane, under **Developer**, select **Code + Test**. The **Code + Test** pane appears for your *HttpTrigger1* (or *DriveGearTemperatureService* for PowerShell) function.

1. On the command bar, select **Test/Run**. A pane showing the input parameters for running a test.

1. In the **Body** text box, overwrite the embedded code by replacing line 2 in the **Body** with the cURL command below, replacing `<your-function-key>` with the function key value you saved, and replacing `<your-https-url>` with the URL of your function.

    ```bash
    curl --header "Content-Type: application/json" --header "x-functions-key: <your-function-key>" --request POST --data "{\"name\": \"Azure Function\"}" <your-https-url>
    ```

1. Review the cURL command and verify that it has the following values:

    - Added a `Content-Type` header value of type `application/json`.
    - Passed the Function Key as the header value `x-functions-key`.
    - Used a `POST` request.
    - Passed the Azure Function with the URL for your function.

1. Select **Run**.

    The **Code + Test** pane should open a session displaying log file output (ensure **Filesystem Logs** is selected in the drop-down at the top of the **Logs** pane). The log file updates with the status of your request, which should look something like this for JavaScript:

    ```output
    2022-02-16T22:34:10.473 [Information] Executing 'Functions.HttpTrigger1' (Reason='This function was programmatically called via the host APIs.', Id=4f503b35-b944-455e-ba02-5205f9e8b47a)
    2022-02-16T22:34:10.539 [Information] JavaScript HTTP trigger function processed a request.
    2022-02-16T22:34:10.562 [Information] Executed 'Functions.HttpTrigger1' (Succeeded, Id=4f503b35-b944-455e-ba02-5205f9e8b47a, Duration=114ms)
    ```

    and something like this for PowerShell:

    ```output
    2022-02-16T21:07:11.340 [Information] INFORMATION: PowerShell HTTP trigger function processed a request.
    2022-02-16T21:07:11.449 [Information] Executed 'Functions.DriveGearTemperatureService' (Succeeded, Id=25e2edc3-542f-4629-a152-cf9ed99680d8, Duration=1164ms)
    ```

    Under the **Output** pane, for **HTTP response code**, the function responds with the text `200 OK`.

    > [!CAUTION]
    > If you are on Windows, run `cURL` from the command prompt. PowerShell has a *curl* command, but it's an alias for Invoke-WebRequest, and is not the same as `cURL`.

    > [!NOTE]
    > The **Code/Test** function may open an *Input/Output* pane in a different configuration, with the log file appearing on the side of a selected function. If so, you won't be able to verify the function key system is working, as it is not required. Add the appropriate header and parameter values in the Test interface, and select **Run** to see the test output.

## Add business logic to the function

Let's add the logic to the function, to check temperature readings that it receives, and set a status for each temperature reading.

Our function is expecting an array of temperature readings. The following JSON snippet is an example of the request body that we'll send to our function. Each `reading` entry has an ID, timestamp, and temperature.

```json
{
    "readings": [
        {
            "driveGearId": 1,
            "timestamp": 1534263995,
            "temperature": 23
        },
        {
            "driveGearId": 3,
            "timestamp": 1534264048,
            "temperature": 45
        },
        {
            "driveGearId": 18,
            "timestamp": 1534264050,
            "temperature": 55
        }
    ]
}
```

Let's replace the default code in our function with the following code, to implement our business logic.

::: zone pivot="javascript"

In the **HttpTrigger1** function pane, open the **index.js** file, and replace it with the following code. After making this change, on the command bar, select **Save** to save the updates to the file.

```javascript
module.exports = function (context, req) {
    context.log('Drive Gear Temperature Service triggered');
    if (req.body && req.body.readings) {
        req.body.readings.forEach(function(reading) {

            if(reading.temperature<=25) {
                reading.status = 'OK';
            } else if (reading.temperature<=50) {
                reading.status = 'CAUTION';
            } else {
                reading.status = 'DANGER'
            }
            context.log('Reading is ' + reading.status);
        });

        context.res = {
            // status: 200, /* Defaults to 200 */
            body: {
                "readings": req.body.readings
            }
        };
    }
    else {
        context.res = {
            status: 400,
            body: "Please send an array of readings in the request body"
        };
    }
    context.done();
};
```

The logic we added is straightforward. We iterate through the array and set the status as **OK**, **CAUTION**, or **DANGER** based on the value of the temperature field. We then send back the array of readings with a status field added to each entry.

Notice the `Log` statements when you expand **Logs** at the bottom of the pane. When the function runs, these statements will add messages in the Logs window.

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="powershell"

Open the **run.ps1** file, and replace the contents with the following code. After making this change, on the command bar, select **Save** to save the updates to the file.

```powershell
using namespace System.Net

param($Request, $TriggerMetadata)

Write-Host "Drive Gear Temperature Service triggered"

$readings = $Request.Body.Readings
if ($readings) {
    foreach ($reading in $readings) {
        if ($reading.temperature -le 25) {
            $reading.Status = "OK"
        }
        elseif ($reading.temperature -le 50) {
            $reading.Status = "CAUTION"
        }
        else {
            $reading.Status = "DANGER"
        }

        Write-Host "Reading is $($reading.Status)"
    }

    $status = [HttpStatusCode]::OK
    $body = $readings
}
else {
    $status = [HttpStatusCode]::BadRequest
    $body = "Please send an array of readings in the request body"
}

Push-OutputBinding -Name Response -Value ([HttpResponseContext]@{
    StatusCode = $status
    Body = $body
})
```

The logic we added is straightforward. We iterate through the array and set the status as **OK**, **CAUTION**, or **DANGER** based on the value of the temperature field. We then send back the array of readings with a status field added to each entry.

Note the calls to the `Write-Host` cmdlet. When the function runs, these statements will add messages in the Logs window.

::: zone-end

## Test our business logic

We're going to use the **Test/Run** feature in *Developer* > *Code + Test* to test our function.

1. In the **Input** tab, replace the contents of the **Body** text box with the following code to create our sample request.

    ```json
    {
        "readings": [
            {
                "driveGearId": 1,
                "timestamp": 1534263995,
                "temperature": 23
            },
            {
                "driveGearId": 3,
                "timestamp": 1534264048,
                "temperature": 45
            },
            {
                "driveGearId": 18,
                "timestamp": 1534264050,
                "temperature": 55
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

1. Select **Run**. The **Output** tab displays the HTTP response code and content. To see log messages, open the **Logs** tab in the bottom flyout of the pane (if it is not already open). The following image shows an example response in the output pane and messages in the **Logs** pane.

   :::image type="content" source="../media/5-portal-testing.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Azure function editor, with the Test and Logs tabs showing." lightbox="../media/5-portal-testing.png":::  

    The **Output** tab shows that a status field has been correctly added to each of the readings.

1. In the Developer menu on the left, select **Monitor** to see that the request has been logged to Application Insights. The **Monitor** pane appears for your function.

1. Select **Configure**. The **Application Insights** pane appears for your trigger function. Select **Turn on Application Insights**.

1. In the **New resource name** field, select your function app, and in the **Location** field, select the region you initially associated with your function app.

1. Select **Apply**, then select **Yes**.
