Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL provides a highly scalable distributed database solution by grouping multiple PostgreSQL servers as [nodes within a cluster](/azure/postgresql/hyperscale/concepts-nodes#coordinator-and-workers). As tech lead at Woodgrove Bank, you're helping their developers move their application from PostgreSQL to Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL. While the devs are used to working in a single relational database environment, they aren't familiar with working in a distributed environment. When going into modeling, it's important they understand the building blocks they have to work with in Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL: local tables, reference tables, and distributed tables. They'll also need to consider data usage, data distribution, and data relationships.

## Scenario: Scaling Woodgrove Bank's contactless payment app

:::image type="content" source="../media/woodgrove-bank-logo.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Woodgrove Bank's logo - an icon of a factory with the words 'Woodgrove Bank' to the right of it.":::

Woodgrove Bank has a contactless payment app that works from six feet away, and the data is stored in a single, on-premises PostgreSQL database. Based on a successful trial of the app, Woodgrove Bank would like to release the app to customers across Europe and the United States. As the app needs to scale, the data will need to scale as well. Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL is built to host PostgreSQL databases and support them at scale. The Woodgrove Bank development team is unfamiliar with a distributed environment, and as their tech lead, you have the most experience to lead them in this growth.

In this module, you'll help the developers take their first steps in moving to a distributed-data environment. You'll start by looking at how Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL processes a query at a high level and what it means to scale. You'll look at the three common table types and how those table types work with existing relationships in a PostgreSQL database. Once you're aware of those tables, you'll talk through design considerations using Woodgrove Bank's already proven relational model and how it changes in the distributed environment. The devs will have questions along the way, and you'll have the tools to talk through modeling and altering configuration as needed.

By the end of this module, you'll be able to determine which type of table to use for data and how to distribute the data effectively.
