Application Insights, a feature of Azure Monitor, is an extensible Application Performance Management (APM) service for developers and DevOps professionals. It monitors live web applications and you can enable it for many Azure App Service web apps without modifying any of the app's code.

Application Insights also works for apps on a wide variety of platforms including .NET, Node.js, Java, and Python hosted on-premises, hybrid, or any public cloud. In several cases, application monitoring can be enabled without making any changes to code using auto-instrumentation or codeless attach. Additionally, Application Insights SDKs can be used to instrument apps in cases where custom events collection is required, or codeless attach is not yet supported.

Imagine that you work for a company that makes digital video cameras. You have an App Service web app that enables users of your products to upload and share their videos with the community.

The app was first deployed to Azure a few months ago. No application performance management (APM) system was set up. Performance was initially good, with no errors reported to clients. But a few months after the app went live, user feedback indicated that pages in the app were loading slowly. Because there was no telemetry in place, your team wasn't even aware that the app was slow until users started to complain.

Admins and developers have no way to diagnose the problem because the sparse trace output generated by the application isn't comprehensive enough to be helpful. You need to quickly instrument the app so you can diagnose and fix the performance problems.

This module will demonstrate how to enable Application Insights for an Azure web app without changing its source code, and how to use Application Insights to capture information about page load times.

## Learning objectives

After completing this module, you'll be able to:

- Enable Application Insights runtime instrumentation on a new or existing Azure web app.
- Identify the Application Insights telemetry visualization features of the Azure portal.
- Create a chart to view data for a specific metric.

## Prerequisites

- Ability to create and deploy Azure App Service web apps.
- Basic knowledge of web application development.