The Azure Functions Core Tools are command-line utilities that let you develop and run functions locally, and then publish them to Azure.

Suppose you're a developer for a car dealership franchise. The salespeople are always looking for ways to modernize their workflow. Your manager has decided to build a set of applications backed by Azure Functions. The first service your manager would like to have built involves loan interest calculations. Your manager asked you to look into creating functions that can be called over the web to run loan interest calculations. You've decided to start by learning how to use the Azure Functions Core Tools to build and publish a function project.

In this module, you'll use the Azure Functions Core Tools, from the Azure CLI, to create a new local function project and a function app. You'll change the starter code generated by the Core Tools to run a simple interest calculation and run the function locally to test it. When it's ready, you'll use the Azure CLI to create a function app in Azure, publish your function, then invoke it over the web.

By the end of this module, you'll know how to use the Core Tools to create and run functions locally and publish them to Azure.

This module's exercise can be completed in a browser, and doesn't require an Azure subscription or local development environment.

## Learning objectives

By the end of this module, you'll know how to use the Azure Functions Core Tools to:

- Create new functions projects and functions
- Run and test functions locally
- Publish functions to Azure

## Prerequisites

- Beginner-level Azure Functions development experience
- Familiarity with basic command-line usage
