The application of AI that we'll focus on in this learning path is the classification of space rocks by a computer. You might be wondering why we would want to study something as commonplace as rocks. The answer is that there are many amazing things we can learn from and do with rocks that originate in space.

## What are space rocks?

Before we jump into why we choose to study space rocks, let's first classify the different rocks and soil that NASA scientists study. Rocks and soil from space come in many sizes, ranging from tiny specs of soil found on the moon to boulders the size of planets that float through space. Boulders that originate in space might be discovered flying through space (*meteoroids* and *asteroids*), or found on the surface of moons, planets, and even Earth (*meteorites*). 

## Why space rocks are important

When I first started to learn about space rocks, I thought, "*Why* does NASA keep sending rockets to the moon to collect space rocks?" (Please don't tell NASA I said that.) Now I know that there are many different uses for space rocks. We won't cover all of the uses in this module because of the sheer volume, but for one, rocks tell us about the history of our Solar System as they record geological events (e.g., eruption of a volcano). Space rocks have been here much longer than we have been, and they'll be here long after we are gone. For example, granite is plentiful on Earth, but our research tells us that granite is rare everywhere else in the solar system. This discrepancy is because granite is formed in tectonic regions (i.e., where mountains are formed), many other planets/moons do not have plate tectonics. This gives us background information on how other planets were formed and how they are currently structured.

Along with learning about the history of the Solar System, space rocks can also help us find signs of life or the ability to sustain life outside of Earth. Many rocks in the universe are water-bearing, and if we know a lot about these rocks, we can search for planets that contain these rocks. One day, we might find life or an environment that can sustain human life.

The final example of what studying space rocks can do for us is help prepare for the future. Although it might seem like a long way off, at some point, we might harvest space rocks as a resource like we gather wood from trees now. Many space rocks have gases and chemical compounds in them that are rare or potentially not found on Earth. In the future, we might potentially use these resources to create new technology that's useful to people on Earth or use for further exploration of the Solar System (e.g., rocket fuel).
