<!-- Original file: C:\Users\Mark\Desktop\CMU\v_5_3\content\_u05_distributed_programming_analytics_engines\_u05_m05_streaming_and_mq\x-oli-workbook_page\_u05_m05_1_intro.xml -->
In this module, we will look at message queues and stream processing. With the rise of internet services and the availability of continuous streams of real-time data, the challenge is to process these data streams in near-real time.

Streams should be viewed as an infinite sequence of small messages that arrive continuously with no breaks. The data is not at rest, and the stream processing systems that are responsible for handling these streams should be able to continuously consume and process the data. 

We will begin by looking at the main ideas behind message queue systems, the abstractions that it provides which are beneficial for distributed stream processing. Apache’s Kafka is an example of a distributed message queue system that has been gaining a lot of popularity of late. 

Next, we look at stream processing systems and understand the motivations of these systems in order to perform real-time processing of data streams. The primary issue in stream processing is that of managing state - certain stream processing workloads are inherently _stateless_ as they can be performed on individual stream messages and can thus be scaled out quite easily as there is no coordination of data or state among the processors working in parallel. 

 _Stateful_ stream processing workloads require the management of state that is updated by the messages. Stateful stream processes are more challenging to manage and scale out; This is especially true when the frequency of messages arriving in a stream increase or the number of simultaneous streams that need to be processed increase. Methods such as stream _windowing_ allows for processing of multiple stream messages in batches. 

Finally, we will put it all together by looking at a few big-data processing archetypes that have been discussed in the industry in the last few years. Proponents of the _Lambda architecture_ propose a multi-layered approach with a batch layer to update the state of the data using high throughput, high latency, high accuracy batch processing system, and the very latest data is processed by a low-latency, not-so-high accuracy stream processing system. An alternative is the _Kappa architecture_, which does away with batch processing entirely and relies on stream processing systems to produce the required results.