Like any other piece of complex electronic hardware that we use today, IoT devices need to run code in order to be useful. However, because IoT devices tend to be small and resource-constrained, the environment in which the code runs will vary in functionality, memory footprint, and feature set. Devices will also need to be programmed to complete the tasks that engineers need them to do. There are lots of vendors developing runtime environments, operating systems for resource-constrained devices, and programming tools. The software that you choose for your solutions will be influenced by a combination of the following items:

 -  Availability of the software you need.
 -  Compatibility of the software with the devices you've chosen.
 -  Compatibility with other software/cloud systems in your solution.
 -  Reputation and longevity of the software provider.
 -  The commitment of the software provider to update the operating system and tools to address security issues, bugs, and new features.
 -  Security and privacy requirements.

Your solution may involve devices with two or more operating systems and development environments. It is important to remember that the more you require of your solution, the more complex development and maintenance becomes, so it pays to be mindful of the software choices you make and the implications that these choices have during the architectural phase of the project.

## Device operating systems

As we mentioned previously, there are many options for device operating systems. The following table lists a few of the more popular choices to provide a sense of the features and options available.

|          **OS**           |  **Type**   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                            **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|:-------------------------:|:-----------:|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| Windows 10 IoT Enterprise |   Managed   |                                                                                                                                            Windows 10 IoT Enterprise is a version of Windows 10 that is optimized for smaller devices with or without a display that run on Intel, Qualcomm, Broadcom, and NXP processors.                                                                                                                                            |
|        Ubuntu Core        | Open Source |                                                                                                                   "Ubuntu Core uses the same kernel, libraries, and system software as classic Ubuntu. You can develop snaps on your Ubuntu PC just like any other application. The difference is that it’s been built for the Internet of Things."                                                                                                                   |
|           Riot            | Open Source |                                                                                                     "RIOT supports most low-power IoT devices and microcontroller architectures (32-bit, 16-bit, 8-bit). RIOT aims to implement all relevant open standards supporting an Internet of Things that is connected, secure, durable &amp; privacy-friendly."                                                                                                      |
|            QNX            |   Managed   | "Through sophisticated software solutions BlackBerry® QNX helps ensure the proper operation of embedded systems that require mission-critical and life-critical operations. Since 1980, BlackBerry QNX has established itself as a trusted partner for companies building vehicles, medical devices, heavy machinery, power and energy, robotics, and industrial automation systems that are required to be safety-certified, extremely reliable, and highly secure." |
|    Android Automotive     |   Managed   |                                                                                                                                                                         "Android Automotive is a variation of Google's Android operating system, tailored for its use in vehicle dashboards."                                                                                                                                                                         |

There are many other choices available. The OS that you choose will largely depend on what you need to accomplish, your architectural design, development tools and your developer resources, and business or project-specific considerations. Most vendors and organizations (even if they're not open source) provide free "trial" options so you can spend some time with the software and tools as you work through the options. Be sure to examine the development tools that can be used to for each OS under consideration. Being able to write software for your devices should be as much of a consideration as the operating system itself.

## Programming languages

When it comes to programming devices, the operating system that runs on the device often determines which programming languages can be used. Many modern hardware devices can support multiple languages and board engineers may develop specific flavors of hardware to support various languages.

The diversity of options makes choosing a programming platform complex, and attempting to even outline the matrix of options here would not present an adequate picture. Instead, we can suggest how to approach the decision-making process when it comes to a programming platform.

 -  **Determine what data you want to collect**. As we've seen throughout the course, your IoT architecture generally will begin by figuring out what problems you're solving and this, most times, will be characterized in terms of the data you want to collect. This relates to programming languages because the data you want to collect will impact the devices you choose and the programming language(s) you choose will have to work with the device infrastructure you deploy.
 -  **Think about your development team**. When considering the programming languages you want to use in your solution, you will need to consider whether you want to use talent you already have at your disposal, bring on new resources, or use a blend of both. If your current software development team knows C\# but doesn't know Python, choosing a platform that supports C\# as a programming language will most likely enable you to get to market quicker than having either to train existing talent in another language or bring on new talent that knows an alternate language.
 -  **Think about your broader software environment**. Similar to item 2 above, when you think about what software platform you want to use, it can be helpful to think about the development environment across your business group or enterprise. By using a language that already is deployed in other areas of your business can make tasks like resource balancing, code sharing, source control, hiring, and similar factors more efficient.
 -  **Choose a device or devices platform**. Once you've figured out what data you want to collect and have thought about your larger ecosystem, you'll be better informed when it comes to choosing a device platform. You may need more than one device platform, so choosing platforms that are the most compatible with items 1-3 above will give you a more efficient overall environment in which to develop your solution.

These items are not the only factors to consider of course. Items like cost can have a significant impact on choices but sometimes using a device platform that is slightly higher in cost per item can pay off in the end if the platform supports a language platform that will improve efficiency during the life of the solution.

**What about the cloud?** It may go without saying, but we'll say it anyway: an essential component of the software platform when making a platform decision is the cloud services you'll use to support your software and hardware. We'll talk a bit more about the cloud in the next topic but we think it's important to call out here as an essential aspect of the decision-making process.

## Software development kits

Software development kits (SDKs) can often be used to speed the process of building your solution. If you've never used an SDK before, these kits can accelerate the software development process by providing the developer with all the necessary tools, software packages, and integration software necessary to build a complete solution. While the degree to which any given SDK benefits the developer will vary with providers and companies, a good SDK will provide many if not most of the software-related tools needed to build a solution.
