Even though we are primarily interested in generating projections in a knowledge store, the Azure Cognitive Search indexing process requires a target index to populate with the extracted data. 

Choose your preferred language at the top of this page, and then follow the steps below to create an index for the Margie's Travel search solution.

:::zone pivot="csharp"

To create an index using C#, you must implement a class that represents the index, including all of its fields.

1. In the **C-Sharp/create-knowledge-store** folder, open the **MargiesIndex.cs** code file and view the code it contains. This code defines the index and the complex types it contains. 
2. Review the definition of the **MargiesIndex** class, which includes a mix of fields extracted directly from the data source and enriched fields generated by the skillset.
3. Open the **Program.cs** code file and review the code in the **CreateIndex** function, which creates an index named **margies-index-cs** based on the **MargiesIndex** class.
4. In the **Terminal** pane, select the bash terminal for the **create-knowledge-store** folder. If you have closed this terminal, right-click (Ctrl+click if using a Mac) the **C-Sharp/create-knowledge-store** folder and select **Open in Integrated Terminal**.
6. In the terminal for the **create-knowledge-store** folder, enter the following command:
    ```bash
    dotnet run
    ```
7. When prompted, press **3** to create an index. Then wait while the program creates the index.
8. When the prompt is redisplayed, press **q** to quit the program.
9. Open your search service in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com?portal=true) and view its **Indexes** tab to confirm that the index has been created.

:::zone-end

:::zone pivot="python"

To create an index using Python, you must use the **indexes** REST endpoint. You can submit an HTTP *PUT* request to create or update an index based on a JSON document that defines the index schema.

1. In the **Python/create-knowledge-store** folder, open the **index.json** file. This file contains the JSON definition of an index.
2. Review the index definition. It includes a mix of fields extracted directly from the data source and enriched fields generated by the skillset.
3. In the **Terminal** pane, select the bash terminal for the **create-knowledge-store** folder. If you have closed this terminal, right-click (Ctrl+click if using a Mac) the **Python/create-knowledge-store** folder and select **Open in Integrated Terminal**.
4. In the terminal for the **create-knowledge-store** folder, enter the following command:
    ```bash
    python3 submit-rest.py 'PUT' 'indexes/margies-index-py' 'index.json'
    ```
5. Wait while Python runs the **submit-rest&#46;py** script, causing it to submit an HTTP PUT request to the *indexes* REST endpoint, adding an index named *margies-index-py* based on the JSON body defined in the *index.json* file. The use of a PUT request ensures that if the index already exists, it is updated based on the JSON; otherwise it is created.
6. Review the JSON response that is returned from the REST interface.
7. Open your search service in the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com?portal=true) and view its **Indexes** tab to confirm that the index has been created.

:::zone-end
