learn-pr/azure/monitor-github-events-with-a-function-triggered-by-a-webhook/includes/5-exercise-setup-webhook-for-github-repo.md, before:

In this exercise, you'll set up a webhook for a GitHub repository. You'll learn how to listen for specific events, in this case the *Gollum* event, and how to make your webhook callback to your function when the event is triggered.

## Setup

1. Using your web browser, sign in to your [GitHub account](https://www.github.com).

1. Create a new repository by clicking the **New** button and give it a meaningful name such as **LearnWebhookTest**. At the bottom click **Commit new file**.

1. Select **Add file**.

1. Add some text, and then select *Commmit Changes*.

## Add a webhook for the Gollum Event

The **Gollum** event is the name of the event in GitHub that is fired whenever a page in the repo's wiki is created or updated. 

1. Go back to main page for your repository.

1. Select the **Settings** tab at the top.

1. Select **Webhooks** in the navigation panel to the left of the page.

1. Select the **Add webhook** button on the top-right.

1. Set the payload to the URL for your function app's function from the previous exercise. Remember that it looks similar to this:

    ```text
    https://<your-functionapp-name>.azurewebsites.net/api/HttpTrigger1?code=aUjXIpqdJ0ZHPQuB0SzFegxGJu0nAXmsQBnmkCpJ6RYxleRaoxJ8cQ==
    ```

1. Set the content type to **application/json**.

1. In the section **Which events would you like to trigger this webhook?**, select the radio button labeled **Let me select individual events**.

1. Select the **Wiki** checkbox. Make sure no other check boxes are selected.

1. At the bottom of the page, ensure **Active** is checked and select **Add webhook**.

1. Verify that your new webhook appears when the **Webhooks** page is displayed.

## Test the webhook

1. In the GitHub portal for your repository, click the **Wiki** tab.

1. Select the page that you created earlier.

1. Select **Edit**.

1. In the text area of the page, enter the following text: 

    ```text
    Testing Webhook
    ```

1. Select **Save Page** to save your update.

1. Select the **Settings** tab.

1. Click **Webhooks** in the navigation panel on the left.

    > [!NOTE]
    > The webhook will indicate that the message was not processed correctly; it will generate an HTTP 400 error. The webhook is providing a payload that your function app wasn't expecting, and doesn't include a **name** parameter. You will learn how to parse the payload for a *Gollum* event in the next unit.

1. Select **Edit** next to your webhook.

1. Scroll down to the **Recent Deliveries** section.

1. Select the latest delivery entry by clicking on the ellipsis (**...**).

    You'll see the *Header* information, including the *Event Type*:

    ```json
    Request URL: https://testwh123456.azurewebsites.net/api/HttpTrigger1?code=aUjXIpqdJ0ZHPQuB0SzFegxGJu0nAXmsQBnmkCpJ6RYxleRaoxJ8cQ%3D%3D
    Request method: POST
    content-type: application/json
    Expect: 
    User-Agent: GitHub-Hookshot/16496cb
    X-GitHub-Delivery: 9ed46280-6ab3-11e9-8a19-f1a14922a239
    X-GitHub-Event: gollum
    ```

   You'll also see that the payload contains information indicating that your wiki page was edited. The payload contains **pages**, **repository**, and **sender** sections, which should look something like the example shown below:

    ```json
        "pages": [
            {
                "page_name": "Home",
                "title": "Home",
                "summary": null,
                "action": "edited",
                "sha": "04d012c5f92a95ae3f7721173bf9f2b1b35ea22f",
                "html_url": "https://github.com/.../wiki/Home"
            }
        ],
        "repository" : {
            "id": 176302421,
            "node_id": "MDEwOlJlcG9zaXRvcnkxNzYzMDI0MjE=",
            "name": "tieredstorage",
            ...
        },
        "sender" : {
            ...
        }
    ```

2. Select the **Response** tab.

    You'll see the response message generated by the Azure function. For this example, the body should contain the message. *Please pass a name on the query string or in the request body*.

Commit message:

Edited setup content to match UI

learn-pr/azure/monitor-github-events-with-a-function-triggered-by-a-webhook/includes/5-exercise-setup-webhook-for-github-repo.md, after:

In this exercise, you'll set up a webhook for a GitHub repository. You'll learn how to listen for specific events, (in this case, the *Gollum* event), and how to make your webhook callback to your function when the event is triggered.

## Setup

1. Using your web browser, sign in to your [GitHub account](https://www.github.com).

1. Create a new repository by selecting **New** in the left nav bar, and enter a meaningful name such as **LearnWebhookTest**.

1. Select **Public** to activate your wiki module, and find it in the menu.

1. Select **Create repository**. The **Quick setup** page appears.

1. Select the **creating a new file** link.

1. Select the **Wiki** tab. A **Welcome** page appears.

1. Select **Create the first page**. The **Create new page** template appears.

1. Add some text, and select **Save Page**.

## Add a webhook for the Gollum Event

The **Gollum** event is the name of the event in GitHub that is fired whenever a page in the repo's wiki is created or updated.

1. Select **Home** to return to the home page for your repository.

1. Select the **Settings** tab.

1. Select **Webhooks** in the navigation panel to the left of the page.

1. Select **Add webhook** on the top-right.

1. Set the payload to the URL for your function app's function from the previous exercise. Remember that it looks similar to this:

    ```text
    https://<your-functionapp-name>.azurewebsites.net/api/HttpTrigger1?code=aUjXIpqdJ0ZHPQuB0SzFegxGJu0nAXmsQBnmkCpJ6RYxleRaoxJ8cQ==
    ```

1. Set the content type to **application/json**.

1. In the section **Which events would you like to trigger this webhook?**, select the radio button labeled **Let me select individual events**.

1. Select the **Wiki** checkbox. Make sure no other check boxes are selected.

1. At the bottom of the page, ensure **Active** is checked, and select **Add webhook**.

1. Verify that your new webhook appears when the **Webhooks** page appears.

## Test the webhook

1. In the GitHub portal for your repository, select the **Wiki** tab.

1. Select the page that you created earlier.

1. Select **Edit**.

1. In the text area of the page, enter the following text:

    ```text
    Testing Webhook
    ```

1. Select **Save Page** to save your update.

1. Select the **Settings** tab.

1. Select **Webhooks** in the navigation panel on the left.

    > [!NOTE]
    > The webhook will indicate that the message was not processed correctly; it will generate an HTTP 400 error. The webhook is providing a payload that your function app wasn't expecting, and doesn't include a **name** parameter. You will learn how to parse the payload for a *Gollum* event in the next unit.

1. Select **Edit** next to your webhook.

1. Scroll down to the **Recent Deliveries** section.

1. Select the latest delivery entry by selecting the ellipsis (**...**).

    You'll see the *Header* information, including the *Event Type*:

    ```json
    Request URL: https://testwh123456.azurewebsites.net/api/HttpTrigger1?code=aUjXIpqdJ0ZHPQuB0SzFegxGJu0nAXmsQBnmkCpJ6RYxleRaoxJ8cQ%3D%3D
    Request method: POST
    content-type: application/json
    Expect: 
    User-Agent: GitHub-Hookshot/16496cb
    X-GitHub-Delivery: 9ed46280-6ab3-11e9-8a19-f1a14922a239
    X-GitHub-Event: gollum
    ```

   You'll also see that the payload contains information indicating that your wiki page was edited. The payload contains **pages**, **repository**, and **sender** sections, which should look something like the example shown below:

    ```json
        "pages": [
            {
                "page_name": "Home",
                "title": "Home",
                "summary": null,
                "action": "edited",
                "sha": "04d012c5f92a95ae3f7721173bf9f2b1b35ea22f",
                "html_url": "https://github.com/.../wiki/Home"
            }
        ],
        "repository" : {
            "id": 176302421,
            "node_id": "MDEwOlJlcG9zaXRvcnkxNzYzMDI0MjE=",
            "name": "tieredstorage",
            ...
        },
        "sender" : {
            ...
        }
    ```

2. Select the **Response** tab.

    You'll see the response message generated by the Azure function. For this example, the body should contain the message. *Please pass a name on the query string or in the request body*.
