You've decided that the issues the new Customer Portal is experiencing could have something to do with the way files are stored or uploaded. You want to determine why the problem occurs by capturing the metrics for blob storage. You can use these metrics to find out how many errors occur, and whether the errors are associated with a particular time of day (possible peak periods), or some other factor.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This exercise is in two parts. You can only perform the second part after waiting for several minutes. This structure is due to how Azure Storage Analytics processes the operations it monitors to generate aggregated results. You may wish to leave the exercise after you've uploaded files to blob storage, and come back to it after the metrics have been generated.

In this exercise, we'll use Azure portal and PowerShell to configure storage metrics for our storage account. We'll then run an application that simulates uploading and downloading many files to and from blob storage in our account.

Later, we'll examine the metrics generated by the application.

## Create a storage account

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/learn.docs.microsoft.com?azure-portal=true) by using the same account with which you activated the sandbox.

2. In the Azure portal, select **Create a resource**.

3. In the **Search services and Marketplace** box, search for and select **Storage account**. 

   The **Storage account** panel appears.

4. Select **Create**.

   The **Create storage account** panel appears.

5. On the **Basics** tab, fill in the following values for each setting.

    | Setting  | Value  |
    |---|---|
    | **Project details** |
    | Subscription | **Concierge Subscription**  |
    | Resource group | <rgn>[Sandbox resource group]</rgn> |
    | **Instance details** |
    | Storage account name | *\<your-storage-account-name\>*, which is 3 to 24 characters and consists of only lowercase letters and numbers; for example, **monitorstorageaccount** |
    | Region | Use the default region |
    | Performance | **Standard** |
    | Redundancy | **Geo-redundant storage (GRS)** |

6. Select the **Advance** tab. In the **Blob storage** section, make sure that **access tier** is set to **Hot**.

7. Select **Review + create**. After validation passes, select **Create**.

8. On the **Your deployment is complete** panel, select **Go to resource**.

## Add a blob container

Before you can add blobs to a storage account, you need to create a blob container.

1. Under **Data storage**, select **Containers**.  

   The **Containers** panel appears.

2. In the **Containers** panel, select **Container**.

   The **New container** pane appears.

3. In the **Name** field, enter **monitor-blobs-container**, and then select **Create**.

## Upload files to the blob container

To upload a single file to the blob container:

1. Open the **monitor-blobs-container** container, and then select **Upload**.

2. On the **Upload blob** pane, select the folder icon.

3. In the **Open** dialog box, select a small text file from your local file system, and select **Open**.

4. Wait for one minute, and then repeat these steps to upload a different file.

5. Wait for another minute, and then repeat these steps to upload another file.

6. Wait for several more minutes before continuing with the next section.

## Visualize metrics using Metrics Explorer in the Azure portal

Transaction metrics are emitted on every request to a storage account, so you should see changes in these values relatively quickly. To create a transaction metrics chart, complete the following steps:

1. In the Azure portal, navigate to the page for your storage account.

2. In the menu pane, under **Monitoring**, select **Metrics**.

3. In the top right, select **Last Hour** for the time range.

4. Under **Time** granularity, select **1 minute**, and then select **Apply**.

   Screenshot goes here.

5. Change the chart type to **Bar chart**.

   Screenshot goes here.

6. Under **Chart Title**, select **Add metric**.

7. Change the **metric namespace** to **Blob**, select **transactions** for **metric**.

   Screenshot goes here.

## Add a filter

As you interacted with your directory structure in the Azure portal, several other types of transactions occurred other than a write operation to the account. The chart shows a bar for every transaction that occurred in the course of uploading these files.  Filtering enables you to look at the metrics with greater granularity. In this case, we'll look at isolating upload transactions. 

1. Select **Add filter**.

2. Under **Property**, select **API name**.

3. Under **Values**, select **PutBlob**.

   The chart shows bars that represent the REST call to the **Put Blob** API. These bars represent the actual upload of a file.

4. Under **Values**, clear the **PutBlob** check box. Then, select **ListBlob**.

   The chart shows bars that represent transactions related to listing files. Before you uploaded a file, you opened the container and that led to a call to the **List Blob** API. To see all APIs called in a period of time, you can use the **Apply splitting** feature.

5. Select the **X** to the right of the filter oval to remove the filter.

   Screenshot goes here.
