learn-pr/azure/accelerate-storage-with-hpc-cache/includes/8-summary.md, before:

As a storage administrator at a digital animation studio, you needed to accelerate storage so the studio could produce movie scenes faster.

We accelerated our storage, which enabled us to complete our video renders in less time. HPC clients mounted the cache and were able to get the storage data faster. Because the clients didn't have to wait as long for on-premises storage, we were able to render more of our movie in less time.

We were able to achieve this by:

- Meeting the prerequisites, which set up the environment for the cache.
- Creating a cache that was large enough to store the data for our working set.
- Adding our local storage server as a storage target, which provided access to our data.
- Connecting our Azure HPC clients to the cache, which enabled faster access to our data and let us complete our renders before the deadline.

Without Azure HPC Cache, our in-house clients wouldn't have been able to render all the scenes in time. We would have needed to purchase more hardware to try to meet our deadline. Artists, managers, and the director wouldn't have been able to review and approve the work on time. The movie release date would have to be moved because the scenes wouldn't have been completed by the deadline.

With an on-time release, the movie can reach its eager audience and generate revenue sooner. Because your studio completed the renders within a limited time, other studios are looking to contract with you for future video work.

Commit message:

AB#498437 - Edits and updates from module review

learn-pr/azure/accelerate-storage-with-hpc-cache/includes/8-summary.md, after:

As a storage administrator at a digital animation studio, you needed to accelerate storage so the studio could produce movie scenes faster.

In this module, you accelerated your storage, which allowed you to complete your video renders in less time. HPC clients mounted the cache and were able to get the storage data faster. Because the clients didn't have to wait as long for on-premises storage, you were able to render more of your movie in less time.

You were able to achieve this by:

- Meeting the prerequisites, which set up the environment for the cache.
- Creating a cache that was large enough to store the data for your working set.
- Adding your local storage server as a storage target, which provided access to your data.
- Connecting your Azure HPC clients to the cache, which enabled faster access to your data and let you complete your renders before the deadline.

Without Azure HPC Cache, your in-house clients wouldn't have been able to render all the scenes in time. You would have needed to purchase more hardware to try to meet your deadline. Artists, managers, and the director wouldn't have been able to review and approve the work on time. The movie release date would have to be moved, because the scenes wouldn't have been completed by the deadline.

With an on-time release, the movie can reach its eager audience and generate revenue sooner. Because your studio completed the renders within a limited time, other studios are looking to contract with you for future video work.
