:::image type="content" border="true" source="../media/surface-laptop-business-users.png" alt-text="Photo of person walking outside carrying a Surface Laptop for Business.":::

Surface Laptop for Business offers portability, manageability, and performance for modern business users. While many types of users can see value from this device, it's ideal for mobile professionals, creative freelancers, and IT decision makers (ITDMs).

- **Mobile professionals:** Surface Laptop for Business is designed for business users. It combines lightweight portability with powerful AI performance—making it ideal for business professionals who need to work from anywhere with secure access to enterprise tools. The combination of Copilot+ PC AI capabilities and long battery life ensures that their work is uninterrupted, regardless of the location.
- **Creative freelancers:** The PixelSense Flow touchscreen on Surface Laptop for Business features HDR (high dynamic range) and 120-Hz refresh rate—creating color accurate visuals and smooth interactions that are ideal for creative tasks. Copilot+ PC AI-powered tools like improved Windows search and Click to Do allow creative freelancers to complete their routine tasks efficiently, while freeing up more time for their creative work.
- **IT decision makers (ITDMs):** When IT departments are looking for new devices for their teams, they focus on easy deployment and management. Surface Laptop for Business offers configuration settings compatible with Microsoft Intune and Windows Autopilot—making deployment both easy and secure. Surface Laptop for Business prioritizes data security, making it an ideal solution for the teams that IT decision makers are deploying devices to. For managing deployed Surface devices, IT decision makers have access to Surface Management Portal—providing vital data and device insights in a centralized location, allowing issues to be addressed before they escalate.
