Starting in May 2019, Microsoft has been offering ExpressRoute FastPath to optimize connectivity of HANA Large Instances to Azure virtual networks that host the SAP application VMs. Its major benefit is that the data flows between VMs and HANA Large Instances are not routed through the ExpressRoute gateway anymore. Instead, the VMs assigned in the subnet(s) of the Azure virtual network are directly communicating with the dedicated enterprise edge router.

The ExpressRoute FastPath functionality requires that the subnets running the SAP application VMs are in the same Azure virtual network that got connected to the HANA Large Instances. VMs located in Azure virtual networks that are peered with the Azure virtual network connected directly to the HANA Large Instance units are not benefiting from ExpressRoute FastPath. As a result, traditional typical hub and spoke virtual network designs, where the ExpressRoute circuits are connecting against a hub virtual network and virtual networks containing the SAP application layer (spokes) are getting peered, are not capable of taking advantage of the optimization by ExpressRoute FastPath. In addition, ExpressRoute FastPath does not support user-defined routing rules (UDR) today. ExpressRoute FastPath requires an UltraPerformance ExpressRoute gateway.

For more information, see ExpressRoute virtual network gateway and FastPath at [About ExpressRoute virtual network gateways](/azure/expressroute/expressroute-about-virtual-network-gateways).
