learn-pr/student-evangelism/intro-to-git/includes/0-introduction.md, before:

Imagine you're a new software developer at a firm that writes avionics software for commercial airliners. Quality control is critical, and developers work in small teams using Git for version control. You've heard of version control, but you've never used Git, so you're eager to catch up!

You decide to build a website that lets you and your friends share pictures of your cats so you can learn Git in a fun environment before bringing that knowledge to work. You set out to build the site using Git to keep track of changes and keep all the source-code files backed up in case the server goes down.

In this module, you will get an intro to version control, Git, and how you can use Git on your own to recover from simple mistakes. Git can seem a little cryptic at first and even be frustrating at times, but if you learn it step by step, you will find that there's a reason it is quickly becoming the world's most popular version-control system — not just for software developers, but for teams who write documentation and produce other collaborative works as well.

## Learning objectives

In this module, you will:

- Learn what version control is
- Understand distributed version control systems, like Git
- Recognize the differences between Git and GitHub and the roles they play in the software development lifecycle
- Create a new Git project and configure it
- Make and track changes to code using Git
- Use Git to recover from simple mistakes

## Prerequisites

None.

Commit message:

add video and resources section

learn-pr/student-evangelism/intro-to-git/includes/0-introduction.md, after:

Imagine you're a new software developer at a firm that writes avionics software for commercial airliners. Quality control is critical, and developers work in small teams using Git for version control. You've heard of version control, but you've never used Git, so you're eager to catch up!

You decide to build a website that lets you and your friends share pictures of your cats so you can learn Git in a fun environment before bringing that knowledge to work. You set out to build the site using Git to keep track of changes and keep all the source-code files backed up in case the server goes down.

In this module, you will get an intro to version control, Git, and how you can use Git on your own to recover from simple mistakes. Git can seem a little cryptic at first and even be frustrating at times, but if you learn it step by step, you will find that there's a reason it is quickly becoming the world's most popular version-control system — not just for software developers, but for teams who write documentation and produce other collaborative works as well.

### Watch a video

For an overview of the exercises in this module, see the video [Introduction to Git Recap](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9uGS1ak_FGg?azure-portal=true). 

## Learning objectives

In this module, you will:

- Learn what version control is
- Understand distributed version control systems, like Git
- Recognize the differences between Git and GitHub and the roles they play in the software development lifecycle
- Create a new Git project and configure it
- Make and track changes to code using Git
- Use Git to recover from simple mistakes

## Prerequisites

None.
