learn-pr/student-evangelism/intro-to-git/includes/8-summary.md, before:

Congratulations! In this module, you learned the basics of using Git.

You learned:

- How to configure Git.
- How to create repositories.
- How to track changes.
- How to recover from simple mistakes with Git.
- The differences between Git and GitHub.

At this point, you know enough about Git to use version control by yourself on a little project. Where version control shines is collaboration with other developers. Check out the other modules in this Learning Path for more on using Git with others!

If you would like to dig deeper, here are additional resources that you'll find helpful:

- On the command line, `git help tutorial` and `git help tutorial-2`
- [Everyday Git](https://git-scm.com/docs/everyday?azure-portal=true) (also available from the command line, as `git help everyday`)
- GitHub's [Git and GitHub learning resources](https://help.github.com/en/articles/git-and-github-learning-resources?azure-portal=true)

You can also learn more from the [documentation section](https://git-scm.com/doc?azure-portal=true) of [Git's official Web site](https://git-scm.com?azure-portal=true).

Commit message:

add video and resources section

learn-pr/student-evangelism/intro-to-git/includes/8-summary.md, after:

Congratulations! In this module, you learned the basics of using Git.

You learned:

- How to configure Git.
- How to create repositories.
- How to track changes.
- How to recover from simple mistakes with Git.
- The differences between Git and GitHub.

At this point, you know enough about Git to use version control by yourself on a little project. Where version control shines is collaboration with other developers. Check out the other modules in this Learning Path for more on using Git with others!

### Resources

If you'd like to dig deeper, here are some additional resources:

- Run the `git help tutorial` and `git help tutorial-2` commands.
- Visit the [Everyday Git](https://git-scm.com/docs/everyday?azure-portal=true) site or use the `git help everyday` command.
- Review the [Git and GitHub learning resources](https://help.github.com/en/articles/git-and-github-learning-resources?azure-portal=true).
- Watch the [Introduction to Git Recap](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9uGS1ak_FGg?azure-portal=true) video.
- Check out the [documentation section](https://git-scm.com/doc?azure-portal=true) of [Git's official website](https://git-scm.com?azure-portal=true).
