Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL is uniquely positioned to host multitenant software as a service (SaaS) applications at any scale. SaaS application providers can start small with a single-node database and, if necessary, horizontally scale the database to a multi-node model that's capable of hosting millions of tenants. You can accomplish this transition with minimal application disruption and without rearchitecting the SaaS application. Application developers can continue to use familiar relational semantics in PostgreSQL, like joins, foreign key constraints, and transactions.

This training module examines concepts and considerations to develop, manage, and monitor multitenant SaaS applications by using Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL. You can create powerful, distributed multitenant databases by understanding multitenant data architectures and by using tenant IDs and tenant-level monitoring.

## Scenario: Horizontally scale a multitenant database with minimal disruption

You were recently hired as the lead data architect for Tailspin Toys. You're in charge of maintaining the multitenant database behind the Tailspin Toys SaaS platform, which hosts websites for boutique toy stores worldwide. The Tailspin Toys SaaS application provides tools that toy stores of all sizes can use to build, host, and manage online storefronts to sell their products.

Tailspin Toys has been successfully running the database as a single-node instance of Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL. But recently, after a successful marketing campaign, the number of stores that host their websites in the application increased. With this increase in the number of tenants, Tailspin Toys has begun to notice degraded query performance and slower response times. The company believes that the cause of the decrease in performance is some of the larger stores. These large stores have more customer traffic that consumes more resources than other, smaller stores.

Tailspin Toys has asked you to monitor the database to determine which stores consume the most resources. The company would like you to use this information to implement a solution to isolate larger stores and to better utilize database resources evenly across all stores. Tailspin Toys has also requested that any changes that you make to the database have a minimal impact on the application.

To address this issue, you've decided to scale the database horizontally by transitioning to a multi-node instance of Azure Cosmos DB for PostgreSQL. By moving to a multi-node instance, you can parallelize workloads by transforming SQL queries, and then distribute workloads across multiple nodes. You plan to monitor the database to identify the stores that have the highest volumes of traffic. Then, to provide consistent performance for all tenants, you'll isolate some of the larger stores on dedicated nodes.
