learn-pr/machine-learning/explore-analyze-data-with-r/includes/1-introduction.md, before:

Unsurprisingly, the role of a data scientist primarily involves exploring and analyzing data. The results of an analysis might form the basis of a report or a machine learning model, but it all begins with data, with R being one of the most popular programming languages for data scientists. R can be used for many purposes and prides itself in being an elegant and beautiful environment designed to support data science. 

After decades of open-source development, R provides extensive functionality with a massive set of powerful statistical modeling, machine learning, visualization and data wrangling packages. For instance: 

- Tidyverse is a collection of R packages that make data science faster, easier and more fun. 
- Tidymodels is a collection of R packages for modeling and statistical analysis. 
- TensorFlow for R and Torch for R supply machine learning and deep learning capabilities. 

:::image type="content" source="../media/student-data-diagram.png" alt-text="Illustration showing student data input to professor analysis."::: 

Usually, a data analysis project is designed to establish insights around a particular scenario or to test a hypothesis. 

For example, suppose a university professor collects data from their students, including the number of lectures attended, the hours spent studying, and the final grade achieved on the end of term exam. The professor could analyze the data to determine if there's a relationship between the amount of studying a student undertakes and the final grade they achieve. The professor might use the data to test a hypothesis that only students who study for a minimum number of hours can expect to achieve a passing grade. 

## Prerequisites

- Knowledge of basic mathematics 
- Some experience programming in R 

## Learning objectives 

In this module, you'll learn: 
- Common data exploration and analysis tasks 
- How to use R packages like ggplot2, dplyr and tidyr to turn raw data into understanding, insight and knowledge

Commit message:

edit pass: learn-explore-analyze-data-with-r

learn-pr/machine-learning/explore-analyze-data-with-r/includes/1-introduction.md, after:

Unsurprisingly, as a data scientist, your role primarily involves exploring and analyzing data. The results of an analysis might form the basis of a report or a machine learning model, but it all begins with data. 

R is one of the most popular programming languages for data scientists. R is an elegant and beautiful environment that's designed to support data science, and you can use it for many purposes. 

After undergoing decades of open-source development, R provides extensive functionality with a massive set of powerful statistical modeling, machine learning, visualization and data wrangling packages. For example: 

- Tidyverse is a collection of R packages that make data science faster, easier, and more fun. 
- Tidymodels is a collection of R packages for modeling and statistical analysis. 
- TensorFlow for R and Torch for R supply machine learning and deep learning capabilities. 

:::image type="content" source="../media/student-data-diagram.png" alt-text="Illustration showing student data input to professor analysis."::: 

Data analysis projects are usually designed to establish insights around a particular scenario or to test a hypothesis. 

For example, suppose you're a university professor who wants to collect data about your students' academic behavior, including the number of lectures attended, the hours spent studying, and the final grade achieved on the end of term exam. You could then analyze the data to determine whether there's a relationship between the students' study hours and the final grades they achieve. You might then use the data to test a hypothesis that only students who study for a minimum number of hours can expect to achieve a passing grade.

In this module, you'll learn how to use R to conduct such an analysis.

## Prerequisites

- Knowledge of basic mathematics 
- Some experience programming in R 

## Learning objectives 

In this module, you'll learn: 
- Common data exploration and analysis tasks. 
- How to use R packages such as ggplot2, dplyr, and tidyr to turn raw data into understanding, insight, and knowledge.
