Cryptographic keys in Key Vault are represented as **JSON Web Key (JWK)** objects. There are two types of keys, depending on how they were created.

 -  **Soft keys**: A key processed in software by Key Vault, but is encrypted at rest using a system key that is in a **Hardware Security Module (HSM)**. Clients may import an existing RSA or EC (Elliptic Curve) key, or request that Key Vault generates one.
 -  **Hard keys**: A key processed in an HSM (Hardware Security Module). These keys are protected in one of the Key Vault HSM Security Worlds (there's one Security World per geography to maintain isolation). Clients may import an RSA or EC key, in soft form or by exporting from a compatible HSM device. Clients may also request Key Vault to generate a key.

## Key operations

Key Vault supports many operations on key objects. Here are a few:

 -  **Create**: Allows a client to create a key in Key Vault. The value of the key is generated by Key Vault and stored, and isn't released to the client. Asymmetric keys may be created in Key Vault.
 -  **Import**: Allows a client to import an existing key to Key Vault. Asymmetric keys may be imported to Key Vault using many different packaging methods within a JWK construct.
 -  **Update**: Allows a client with sufficient permissions to modify the metadata (key attributes) associated with a key previously stored within Key Vault.
 -  **Delete**: Allows a client with sufficient permissions to delete a key from Key Vault

## Cryptographic operations

Once a key has been created in Key Vault, the following cryptographic operations may be performed using the key. For best application performance, verify that operations are performed locally.

 -  **Sign and Verify**: Strictly, this operation is "sign hash" or "verify hash", as Key Vault doesn't support hashing of content as part of signature creation. Applications should hash the data to be signed locally, then request that Key Vault signs the hash. Verification of signed hashes is supported as a convenience operation for applications that may not have access to \[public\] key material.
 -  **Key Encryption / Wrapping**: A key stored in Key Vault may be used to protect another key, typically a symmetric **content encryption key (CEK)**. When the key in Key Vault is asymmetric, key encryption is used. When the key in Key Vault is symmetric, key wrapping is used.
 -  **Encrypt and Decrypt**: A key stored in Key Vault may be used to encrypt or decrypt a single block of data. The size of the block is determined using the key type and selected encryption algorithm. The Encrypt operation is provided for convenience, for applications that may not have access to \[public\] key material.

## Application services plan

More organizations are adopting secrets management policies, where secrets are stored centrally with expectations around expiration and access control. Azure Key Vault provides these management capabilities to your applications in Azure, but some applications can’t easily take on code changes to start integrating with it. Key Vault references are a way to introduce secrets management into your app without code changes.

Apps hosted in App Service and Azure Functions can now define a reference to a secret managed in Key Vault as part of their application settings. The app’s system-assigned identity is used to securely fetch the secret and make it available to the app as an environment variable. Teams can replace existing secrets stored in app settings with references to the same secret in Key Vault, and the app continues to operate as normal.

## Configure a hardware security module key-generation solution

For added assurance, when you use Azure Key Vault, you can import or generate keys in hardware security modules (HSMs) that never leave the HSM boundary. This scenario is often referred to as **Bring Your Own Key (BYOK)**. The HSMs are FIPS 140-2 Level 2 validated. Azure Key Vault uses Thales nShield family of HSMs to protect your keys. (This functionality isn't available for Azure China.)

**Generating and transferring an HSM-protected key over the Internet**:

 -  You generate the key from an offline workstation, which reduces the attack surface.
 -  The key is encrypted with a **Key Exchange Key (KEK)**, which stays encrypted until transferred to the Azure Key Vault HSMs. Only the encrypted version of your key leaves the original workstation.
 -  The toolset sets properties on your tenant key that binds your key to the Azure Key Vault security world. After the Azure Key Vault HSMs receive and decrypt your key, only these HSMs can use it. Your key can't be exported. This binding is enforced using the Thales HSMs.
 -  The KEK that encrypts your key is generated inside the Azure Key Vault HSMs, and isn't exportable. The HSMs enforce that there can be no clear version of the KEK outside the HSMs. In addition, the toolset includes attestation from Thales that the KEK isn't exportable and was generated inside a genuine HSM manufactured by Thales.
 -  The toolset includes attestation from Thales that the Azure Key Vault security world was also generated on a genuine HSM manufactured by Thales.
 -  Microsoft uses separate KEKs and separate security worlds in each geographical region. This separation ensures that your key can be used only in data centers in the region in which you encrypted it. For example, a key from a European customer can't be used in data centers in North American or Asia.

For more information,<br>

[Implementing bring your own key for Azure Key Vault](/azure/key-vault/key-vault-hsm-protected-keys).
