IoT applications can integrate with technology systems across an organization. Devices, groups of devices, business rules and actions, and access and associations between devices and users are controlled. Important parts of the application backend are the “custom” control logic of the solution, device discovery and visualization, device state management and command execution, as well as device management that controls device life cycle, enables distribution of configuration and software updates, and allows remote control of devices. Business integration is often driven from backend processing systems; that is, the integration of the IoT environment into downstream business systems such as CRM, ERP, and line-of-business (LOB) applications.

## Application backend processing

Unlike traditional business systems, the business logic of an IoT solution might be spread across different components of the system. Solution device management will commonly use compute nodes, whereas the analytics portion of the solution will be largely implemented directly inside the respective analytics systems.

In some cases, simple solutions may not have independently deployed and managed “business logic” application backend, but the core logic may exist as rule expressions hosted inside stream processing, some of the analytics capabilities, and/or as part of the business workflows and connector components.

## Roles contributing to IoT solution implementation

In addition to the solution architects who envision and plan the IoT solution, and the data analysts and data engineers who process the data generated by the IoT solution (to establish insights, develop ML models, and propose actions), there are three roles that have primary responsibilities in the implementation of the solution.

 -  **IoT hardware manufacturer/integrator**: Manufacturers of IoT hardware, integrators assembling hardware from various manufacturers, or suppliers providing hardware for an IoT deployment manufactured or integrated by other suppliers. Involved in development and integration of firmware, embedded operating systems, and embedded software.
 -  **IoT solution developer**: The development of an IoT solution is typically done by a solution developer. This developer may be part of an in-house team or a system integrator specializing in this activity. The IoT solution developer can develop various components of the IoT solution from scratch or integrate various standard or open-source components.
 -  **IoT solution operator**: After the IoT solution is deployed, it requires long-term operations, monitoring, upgrades, and maintenance. These tasks can be done by an in-house team that consists of information technology specialists, hardware operations and maintenance teams, and domain specialists who monitor the correct behavior of the overall IoT infrastructure.

## Azure IoT solution developer responsibilities

The IoT solution developer is the person who has the greatest working knowledge of the devices and the generated telemetry:

 -  The Azure IoT Developer is responsible for the implementation and the coding required to create and maintain the cloud and edge portion of an IoT solution. In addition to configuring and maintaining the devices by using cloud services, the IoT Developer also sets up the physical devices. The IoT Developer is responsible for maintaining the devices throughout the life cycle.
 -  The IoT Developer implements designs for IoT solutions, including device topology, connectivity, debugging, and security. The IoT Developer deploys compute/containers and configures device networking. The IoT Developer implements designs for solutions to manage data pipelines, including monitoring and data transformation as it relates to IoT. The IoT Developer works with data engineers and other stakeholders to ensure successful business integration.
 -  IoT Developers should have a good understanding of Azure services, including data storage options, data analysis, data processing, and platform-as-a-service options. IoT Developers must be able to program in at least one Azure-supported language: C, .NET (C\#), Node.js, Python, or Java.
