Azure IoT Hub provides the capability to stream data from your connected devices and integrate that data into your business applications. IoT Hub offers two methods for integrating IoT events into other Azure services or business applications.

1.  **IoT Hub message routing**: This IoT Hub feature enables users to route device-to-cloud messages to service endpoints like Azure Storage containers, Event Hubs, Service Bus queues, and Service Bus topics. Routing also provides a querying capability to filter the data before routing it to the endpoints. In addition to device telemetry data, you can also send non-telemetry events that can be used to trigger actions.
2.  **IoT Hub integration with Event Grid**: Azure Event Grid is a fully managed event routing service that uses a publish-subscribe model. IoT Hub and Event Grid work together to integrate IoT Hub events into Azure and non-Azure services, in near-real time. IoT Hub publishes device events, which are generally available, and now also publishes telemetry events, a feature that is currently in public preview.

## Choosing between IoT Hub routing and Event Grid<br>

IoT Hub message routing and the IoT Hub integration with Event Grid perform different actions to achieve similar results. They both take information from your IoT Hub solution and pass it on so that other services can react. So how do you decide which one to use? Consider the following questions to help guide your decision:

 -  What kind of data are you sending to the endpoints? Use IoT Hub message routing when you have to send telemetry data to other services. Message routing also enables querying message application and system properties, message body, device twin tags, and device twin properties. The IoT Hub integration with Event Grid works with events that occur in the IoT Hub service. These IoT Hub events include telemetry data, device created, deleted, connected, and disconnected. When subscribing to telemetry events, you can apply filters on the data to filter on message properties, message body and device twin in your IoT Hub, before publishing to Event Grid.
 -  What endpoints need to receive this information? IoT Hub message routing supports a limited number of unique endpoints and endpoint types, but you can build connectors to reroute the data and events to more endpoints. The IoT Hub integration with Event Grid supports 500 endpoints per IoT Hub and a larger variety of endpoint types. It natively integrates with Azure Functions, Logic Apps, Storage and Service Bus queues, and also works with webhooks to extend sending data outside of the Azure service ecosystem and into third-party business applications.
 -  Does it matter if your data arrives in order? IoT Hub message routing maintains the order in which messages are sent, so that they arrive in the same way. Event Grid does not guarantee that endpoints will receive events in the same order that they occurred. For those cases in which absolute order of messages is significant and/or in which a consumer needs a trustworthy unique identifier for messages, we recommend using message routing.
