learn-pr/student-evangelism/analyze-rock-images-ai-nasa/includes/1-introduction.md, before:

In the first two modules, you learned about artificial intelligence (AI) and how the technology can be used to enhance a project. Now you can start to create your own program that uses AI.

Installing Python AI libraries is a great first step in creating a rock classification program. The libraries give you a base model that you can train to complete the task at hand.

In this Microsoft Learn module, we'll use Visual Studio Code, Python, and Jupyter Notebook. You'll review code to clean rock images to prepare data for the program. Then we'll look at the code to create and train the AI model.

> [!TIP]
> This module is part of a multimodal learning experience. [Follow along with a video walkthrough of the module][VideoWalkthrough] in a new tab.


## Learning objectives

In this module, you will:

- Import AI libraries
- Download and import NASA data to use with an AI program
- Learn the importance of cleaning and separating data
- Discover how computers read photos as images in binary format
- Use code to clean and separate data, read and display images, and assign classifications


## Prerequisites

- Ability to write and run introductory Python programs
- [Visual Studio Code][VSCode] installed and with the Python extension
- [AI libraries][AILibs] installed


<!-- Links -->
[AILibs]: /training/modules/introduction-artificial-intelligence-nasa/7-install-ai-libraries?azure-portal=true
[VideoWalkthrough]: https://youtu.be/XoHR4p8AO9o?azure-portal=true
[VSCode]: https://aka.ms/LearnOnVSCode?azure-portal=true

Commit message:

Update Module Analyze images of rocks by using artificial intelligence

learn-pr/student-evangelism/analyze-rock-images-ai-nasa/includes/1-introduction.md, after:

In the first two modules, you learned about artificial intelligence (AI) and how the technology can be used to enhance a project. Now you can start to create your own program that uses AI.

Installing Python AI libraries is a great first step in creating a rock classification program. The libraries give you a base model that you can train to complete the task at hand.

In this Microsoft Learn module, we'll use Visual Studio Code, Python, and Jupyter Notebook. You'll review code to clean rock images to prepare data for the program. Then we'll look at the code to create and train the AI model.

> [!TIP]
> This module is part of a multimodal learning experience. [Follow along with a video walkthrough of the module][VideoWalkthrough] in a new tab.


## Learning objectives

In this module, you will:

- Import AI libraries
- Create a [Kaggle] account
- Download and import the [NASA Space Rocks DataSet] to use with an AI program
- Learn the importance of cleaning and separating data
- Discover how computers read photos as images in binary format
- Use code to clean and separate data, read and display images, and assign classifications


## Prerequisites

- Ability to write and run introductory Python programs
- [Visual Studio Code][VSCode] installed and with the Python extension
- [AI libraries][AILibs] installed


<!-- Links -->
[Kaggle]: https://www.kaggle.com
[AILibs]: /training/modules/introduction-artificial-intelligence-nasa/7-install-ai-libraries?azure-portal=true
[VideoWalkthrough]: https://youtu.be/XoHR4p8AO9o?azure-portal=true
[VSCode]: https://aka.ms/LearnOnVSCode?azure-portal=true
[NASA Space Rocks DataSet]: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ifeoyelakin/nasa-space-rocks
