learn-pr/azure/incident-response-with-alerting-on-azure/includes/1-introduction.md, before:

Microsoft Azure provides a robust alerting and monitoring solution called Azure Monitor. You can use Azure Monitor to configure notifications and alerts for your key systems and applications. These alerts will ensure that the correct team knows when a problem arises.

You work for a large shipping company that recently deployed several web applications to the Azure platform. Due to a configuration error, the customer-facing order tracker was offline. The issue wasn't identified until customers started complaining that they couldn't track their orders. As a consequence, customer satisfaction with your service dropped.

As your company's Azure solution architect, you need to find a solution that detects problems in your environments in real time. The correct team will be notified so it can resolve any problems before your customers notice.

## Learning objectives

In this module, you'll:

- Explore alerts by using Azure Monitor.
- Understand when to use metric, log, and activity log events.
- Create and use metric, log, and activity log alerts.

## Prerequisites

- Knowledge of Azure Monitor

Commit message:

Add section on alert processing rules

learn-pr/azure/incident-response-with-alerting-on-azure/includes/1-introduction.md, after:

Microsoft Azure provides a robust alerting and monitoring solution called Azure Monitor. You can use Azure Monitor to configure notifications and alerts for your key systems and applications. These alerts will ensure that the correct team knows when a problem arises.

You work for a large shipping company that recently deployed several web applications to the Azure platform. Due to a configuration error, the customer-facing order tracker was offline. The issue wasn't identified until customers started complaining that they couldn't track their orders. As a consequence, customer satisfaction with your service dropped.

As your company's Azure solution architect, you need to find a solution that detects problems in your environments in real time. The correct team will be notified so it can resolve any problems before your customers notice.

## Learning objectives

In this module, you'll:

- Explore alerts by using Azure Monitor.
- Understand when to use metric, log, and activity log events.
- Create and use metric, log, and activity log alerts.
- Use action groups to determine what kind of notifications are sent and to whom.
- Learn how to use alert processing rules to override the normal behavior of action groups when needed.

## Prerequisites

- Knowledge of Azure Monitor
