learn-pr/azure/incident-response-with-alerting-on-azure/includes/9-summary.md, before:

In this module, you learned how Azure Monitor alerts and notifications help you manage your systems and environment. You explored three different types of alerts: metric, log, and activity log.

You learned how metric alerts enable time-series evaluations, which trigger an action group when the alert is fired.

You also learned how log alert runs specify log queries at regular time intervals. The runs trigger an action group when a match is found.

Lastly, you learned how activity log alerts enable notifications when a named Azure resource meets the specified conditions.

<!-- Cleanup sandbox -->
[!include[](../../../includes/azure-sandbox-cleanup.md)]

## Learn more

For more info about Azure Monitor and each of the alert types, see:

- [Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/alerts-overview)
- [Metric alerts](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-types#metric-alerts)
- [Log alerts](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-types#log-alerts)
- [Activity log alerts](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-types#activity-log-alerts)

Commit message:

Add alert processing rule to activity log exercise

learn-pr/azure/incident-response-with-alerting-on-azure/includes/9-summary.md, after:

In this module, you learned how Azure Monitor alerts and notifications help you manage your systems and environment. You explored three different types of alerts: metric, log, and activity log.

You learned how metric alerts enable time-series evaluations, which trigger an action group when the alert is fired.

You also learned how log alert rules specify log queries to run at regular time intervals. The alerts trigger an action group when a match is found.

You learned how activity log alerts enable notifications when a named Azure resource meets the specified conditions.

Lastly, you learned how to use alert processing rules to override the behavior of an action group when necessary.

<!-- Cleanup sandbox -->
[!include[](../../../includes/azure-sandbox-cleanup.md)]

## Learn more

For more info about Azure Monitor and each of the alert types, see:

- [Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/alerts-overview)
- [Metric alerts](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-types#metric-alerts)
- [Log alerts](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-types#log-alerts)
- [Activity log alerts](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-types#activity-log-alerts)
