As the scope and complexity of applications increases, so does the level of difficulty associating with deploying them in a consistent manner across multiple environments. It also becomes more difficult to minimize the potential for downtime due to a human error. Applying the best practices of software development to operational tasks helps address these challenges. Incorporating automation into the deployment process, combined with a wide range of tests and feedback loops, further mitigates potential risks. Azure DevOps and GitHub Actions considerably simplify converting these ideas into practice.

By applying DevOps principles to development, deployment, monitoring, and management of cloud-native applications, you can maximize their availability, stability, and performance. This also helps you enhance their functionality by speeding up delivery of new features.

## Scenario: Set up apps for authentication

Suppose you work for Adatum Corporation, which is a manufacturer of devices such as refrigerators and air-conditioning units. You lead a small development team, and you've been tasked with building a multiple-feature app for smart refrigerators.

Your team has developed a refrigerator inventory service that businesses can use to easily identify what items they need to restock. They can also set up this service to reorder needed items automatically. For this purpose, you used a Microsoft Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster-hosted Node.js app. This app processes messages from refrigerators, and then sends them on to a management web app.

Your team has simultaneously developed another set of smart refrigerator-related components that collect and process Internet of Things (IoT) telemetry data generated by onboard sensors. The telemetry data allows customers to track the refrigerators' temperatures over time and alert the maintenance staff if an issue occurs. The corresponding IoT pipeline delivers row metrics to Azure Data Lake Storage. Aggregated content is then routed via Azure Event Hubs and Azure Functions to Azure Cosmos DB.

Now your primary challenge is to streamline the build, testing, and deployment of updates. These updates will go to components that constitute your cloud-native application-based solution. Your intention is to adhere to DevOps principles, and use whenever applicable, managed cloud services such as GitHub, Azure DevOps, Azure IoT Hub, AKS, and Application Insights.

## Prerequisites

To successfully complete this module, you should have:

* Basic familiarity with Azure.
* Basic understanding of cloud computing.
* Basic familiarity with programming concepts.
* Basic understanding of DevOps principles.

## Learning objectives

After completing this module, you'll be able to:

* Describe the principles of DevOps and their implementation in cloud-native application scenarios.
* Implement DevOps principles by using GitHub repositories, actions, and workflows, as well as Azure Pipelines and Azure Repos.
* Build and deploy infrastructure and applications by using GitHub workflows and Azure Pipelines.
