
Every request made against a secured resource in the Blob, File, Queue, or Table service must be authorized. Authorization ensures that resources in your storage account are accessible only when you want them to be, and only to those users or applications to whom you grant access.

### Options for authorizing requests to Azure Storage include

 -  **Microsoft Entra ID** \- Azure Storage provides integration with Microsoft Entra ID for identity-based authorization of requests to the Blob and Queue services. With Microsoft Entra ID, you can use role-based access control (RBAC) to grant access to blob and queue resources to users, groups, or applications. You can grant permissions that are scoped to the level of an individual container or queue. Authorizing access to blob and queue data with Microsoft Entra ID provides superior security and ease of use over other authorization options. When you use Microsoft Entra ID to authorize requests make from your applications, you avoid having to store your account access key with your code, as you do with Shared Key authorization. While you can continue to use Shared Key authorization with your blob and queue applications, Microsoft recommends moving to Microsoft Entra ID where possible.
 -  **Microsoft Entra Domain Services authorization** for Azure Files. Azure Files supports identity-based authorization over Server Message Block (SMB) through Microsoft Entra Domain Services. You can use RBAC for fine-grained control over a client's access to Azure Files resources in a storage account
 -  **Shared Key** \- Shared Key authorization relies on your account access keys and other parameters to produce an encrypted signature string that is passed on via the request in the Authorization header.
 -  **Shared Access Signatures** \- A shared access signature (SAS) is a URI that grants restricted access rights to Azure Storage resources. You can provide a shared access signature to clients who should not be trusted with your storage account key but to whom you wish to delegate access to certain storage account resources. By distributing a shared access signature URI to these clients, you can grant them access to a resource for a specified period of time, with a specified set of permissions. The URI query parameters comprising the SAS token incorporate all of the information necessary to grant controlled access to a storage resource. A client who is in possession of the SAS can make a request against Azure Storage with just the SAS URI, and the information contained in the SAS token is used to authorize the request.
 -  **Anonymous access to containers and blobs** \- You can enable anonymous, public read access to a container and its blobs in Azure Blob storage. By doing so, you can grant read-only access to these resources without sharing your account key, and without requiring a shared access signature (SAS).Public read access is best for scenarios where you want certain blobs to always be available for anonymous read access. For more fine-grained control, look to using the shared access signature, described above.

Authenticating and authorizing access to blob and queue data with Microsoft Entra ID provides superior security and ease of use over other authorization options. For example, by using Microsoft Entra ID, you avoid having to store your account access key with your code, as you do with Shared Key authorization. While you can continue to use Shared Key authorization with your blob and queue applications, Microsoft recommends moving to Microsoft Entra ID where possible.

Similarly, you can continue to use shared access signatures (SAS) to grant fine-grained access to resources in your storage account, but Microsoft Entra ID offers similar capabilities without the need to manage SAS tokens or worry about revoking a compromised SAS.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Where possible use authorizing applications that access Azure Storage using Microsoft Entra ID. It provides better security and ease of use over other authorization options.
