HTAP enables businesses to perform analytics over database systems that provide high performance transactional capabilities without impacting the performance of these systems. This enables organizations to use a database to fulfill both transactional and analytical needs to support near real-time analysis of operational data to make timely decisions.

As an example, Adventure Works uses Azure Cosmos DB to store sales orders and customer profile data from their eCommerce site. The NoSQL document store provided by the Azure Cosmos DB provides the familiarity of managing their data using SQL syntax, while being able to read and write the files at a massive, global scale.

While Adventure Works is happy with the capabilities and performance of Azure Cosmos DB, they are concerned about the cost of executing a large volume of complex analytical queries needed to fulfill their operational reporting requirements. They want to efficiently access all their operational data stored in Cosmos DB without needing to increase the Azure Cosmos DB throughput and associate cost. They have looked at options for extracting data from their containers to the data lake as it changes, through the Azure Cosmos DB change feed mechanism. The problem with this approach is the extra service and code dependencies and long-term maintenance of the solution. They could perform bulk exports from a Synapse Pipeline, but then they won't have the most up-to-date information at any given moment.

They decide to enable Azure Synapse Link for Cosmos DB and enable the analytical store on their Azure Cosmos DB containers. With this configuration, all transactional data is automatically stored in a fully isolated column store. This store enables large-scale analytics against the operational data in Azure Cosmos DB, without impacting the transactional workloads or incurring additional costs. Azure Synapse Link for Cosmos DB creates a tight integration between Azure Cosmos DB and Azure Synapse Analytics, which enables Adventure Works to run near real-time analytics over their operational data with no-ETL and full performance isolation from their transactional workloads.

By combining the distributed scale of Cosmos DB's transactional processing and the built-in analytical store with the computing power of Azure Synapse Analytics, Azure Synapse Link enables a Hybrid Transactional/Analytical Processing (HTAP) architecture for optimizing Adventure Works business processes. This integration eliminates ETL processes, enabling business analysts, data engineers and data scientists to self-serve and run near real-time BI, analytics, and Machine Learning pipelines over operational data.
