You can automate deployment of SAP solutions by creating your own Azure Resource Manager templates. You can also use the large collection of Azure Quickstart Templates in the GitHub repository at [https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates). The templates include:

- [SAP NetWeaver two-tier compatible template using a Marketplace image](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-2-tier-marketplace-image): This template takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys a virtual machine customized for use with SAP NetWeaver, using the latest patched version of the selected operating system. This template is for a two-tier configuration. It deploys one server on either Standard or Premium Storage.
- [SAP NetWeaver two-tier compatible template using a Marketplace image](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-2-tier-marketplace-image-md): This template takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys a virtual machine customized for use with SAP NetWeaver, using the latest patched version of the selected operating system. This template is for a two-tier configuration. It deploys one server on Premium Storage. This template uses Managed Disks.
- [SAP NetWeaver two-tier compatible template using a custom managed disk](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-2-tier-user-disk-md): This template takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys a virtual machine customized for use with SAP NetWeaver, using a specialized (that is, not generalized) os disk. This template is for a two-tier configuration. It deploys one server on Premium Storage. This template uses Managed Disks.
- [SAP NetWeaver two-tier compatible template using a Managed Disk image](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-2-tier-user-image-md): This template takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys a virtual machine customized for use with SAP NetWeaver, using a private Managed Disk image. This template is for a two-tier configuration. It deploys one server on either Standard or Premium Storage.
- [SAP NetWeaver three-tier compatible converged template using a Marketplace image](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-3-tier-marketplace-image-converged-md): This template takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys a virtual machine customized for use with SAP NetWeaver, using the latest patched version of the selected operating system. This template is for a three-tier configuration. It deploys 1 (no HA) or 2 (HA) DB/ASCS/SCS servers and several virtual machines that can host dialog instances. If there's a HA deployment, the DB/ASCS/SCS and DI servers are placed in Availability Sets and a load balancer is added to the DB/ASCS/SCS server to allow HA configurations in the operating system (for example, Windows Failover Cluster). This template uses Managed Disks.
- [SAP NetWeaver three-tier compatible template using a Marketplace image – MD](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-3-tier-marketplace-image-md): This template takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys a virtual machine customized for use with SAP NetWeaver, using the latest patched version of the selected operating system. This template is for a three-tier configuration. It deploys 1 (no HA) or 2 (HA) ASCS/SCS servers, 1 (no HA) or 2 (HA) database servers, and several virtual machines that can host dialog instances. If there's a HA deployment, the ASCS/SCS and DB servers are placed in Availability Sets and a Standard load balancer is added to the ASCS/SCS and DB server to allow HA configurations in the operating system (for example, Windows Failover Cluster). This template uses Managed Disks.
- [SAP NetWeaver three-tier multi SID AS (managed disks)](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-3-tier-marketplace-image-multi-sid-apps-md): This template is one of three templates for a three-tier Multi SID SAP deployment. It takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys a virtual machine customized for use with SAP NetWeaver, using the latest patched version of the selected operating system. This template is for a three-tier Multi SID configuration. It deploys multiple application servers for one SAP system. The application servers are placed in an Availability Set. This template uses Managed Disks.
- [SAP NetWeaver three-tier multi SID DB (managed disks)](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-3-tier-marketplace-image-multi-sid-db-md): This template is one of three templates for a three-tier Multi SID SAP deployment. It takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys a virtual machine customized for use with SAP NetWeaver, using the latest patched version of the selected operating system. This template is for a three-tier Multi SID configuration. It deploys 1 (no HA) or 2 (HA) database servers for one SAP system. If there's a HA deployment, the database servers are placed in an Availability Set and a load balancer is added to the database servers to allow HA configurations in the operating system (for example, Windows Failover Cluster). This template uses Managed Disks.
- [SAP NetWeaver three-tier multi SID (A)SCS (managed disks)](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-3-tier-marketplace-image-multi-sid-xscs-md): This template is one of three templates for a three-tier Multi SID SAP deployment. It takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys a virtual machine customized for use with SAP NetWeaver, using the latest patched version of the selected operating system. This template is for a three-tier Multi SID configuration. It deploys 1 (no HA) or 2 (HA) ASCS/SCS servers on which multiple ASCS/SCS instances for multiple SAP systems can be deployed. If there's a HA deployment, the ASCS/SCS servers are placed in an Availability Set and a load balancer is added to the ASCS/SCS servers to allow HA configurations in the operating system (for example, Windows Failover Cluster). This template uses Managed Disks.
- [SAP NetWeaver three-tier converged (managed image)](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-3-tier-user-image-converged-md): This template takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys a virtual machine customized for use with SAP NetWeaver, using a private OS image. This template is for a three-tier configuration. It deploys 1 (no HA) or 2 (HA) DB/ASCS/SCS servers and several virtual machines that can host dialog instances. If there's a HA deployment, the DB/ASCS/SCS and DI servers are placed in Availability Sets and a load balancer is added to the DB/ASCS/SCS server to allow HA configurations in the operating system (for example, Windows Failover Cluster). This template uses Managed Disks.
- [SAP NetWeaver three-tier compatible template using a custom image](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-3-tier-user-image-md): This template takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys a virtual machine customized for use with SAP NetWeaver, using a private OS image. This template is for a three-tier configuration. It deploys 1 (no HA) or 2 (HA) ASCS/SCS servers, 1 (no HA) or 2 (HA) database servers, and several virtual machines that can host dialog instances. If there's a HA deployment, the ASCS/SCS and DB servers are placed in Availability Sets and a load balancer is added to the ASCS/SCS and DB server to allow HA configurations in the operating system (for example, Windows Failover Cluster). This template uses Managed Disks.
- [SAP NetWeaver file server using a Marketplace image](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-file-server-md): This template takes a minimum number of parameters and deploys using the latest version of the selected operating system.
  - NFS on SLES.
  - GlusterFS on RHEL.
  - Windows Server 2016 Storage Spaces Direct Scale out File Server customized for use with SAP NetWeaver.

  This template deploys 2 (or 3 for GlusterFS) virtual machines in Availability Sets and a load balancer is added to allow HA configurations in the operating system (for example, Windows Failover Cluster) if necessary.
- [SAP LaMa template for SAP NetWeaver application server](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-lama-apps): This template deploys a virtual machine and installs the required applications to use this virtual machine for SAP LaMa (Landscape Management). The template also creates the required disk layout.
- [SAP LaMa template for SAP NetWeaver ASCS](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-lama-ascs): This template deploys a virtual machine and installs the required applications to use this virtual machine for SAP LaMa. The template also creates the required disk layout. For more information about managing Azure Virtual Machines with SAP LaMa, see SAP LaMa connector for Azure.
- [SAP LaMa template for SAP NetWeaver database server](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/tree/master/application-workloads/sap/sap-lama-database): This template deploys a virtual machine and installs the required applications to use this virtual machine for SAP LaMa. The template also creates the required disk layout.
