Beyond the innovations that are happening for this program to support future missions, there is still research happening that will benefit from this mission. 

One example is the study of rocks on the Moon. It has been almost 50 years since a person was last on the surface of the Moon, which means any samples are almost 50 years old. One type of sample that is of particular interest are rocks. We know that rocks tell rich and vibrant histories of the land that they come from. Even on Earth, the study of rocks gives us insight into prehistoric times and the evolution of even our present-day Earth. 

Rocks collected by the Moon are stored in the [lunar sample building at the Johnson Space Center](https://curator.jsc.nasa.gov/lunar/) where they are available for study by NASA Scientists. The problem is that there is only a finite of samples and many research questions to ask. There are teams of people who analyze and categorize Moon rocks and determine the risk involved in using parts of samples to conduct research. These teams will sometimes have to deny the request to use a sample because we try to maintain a general health of our entire sample to ensure we have as much of a clear picture of what we have discovered in physical form as possible. 

With a new mission to the Moon, we have the opportunity to gather more of the same rocks we've gathered in the past to increase the size of the samples, as well as discover new rocks that might be of interest in learning what has happened over the past 50 years on the surface of the moon. This opportunity presents astronauts and geologists to work together to decide which rocks to collect, what metadata about those rocks to collect, and how much of them to bring back. 

Furthermore, with the addition of machines to the exploration of the surface, computer scientists become involved in the conversation to try to ensure that the rovers are able to contribute to this data collection as well. Again, needing to decide how to program a robot to collect samples, collect metadata, and not disturb the sample is non-trivial, especially considering the developers cannot test the robots in a truly accurate environment prior to sending them on the mission. 