The scientific areas of interest for NASA research are vast. So why are we focusing on how code can play a role?

Simply put, Microsoft is a leader in innovation around coding tools and data science services. By using tools such as [Visual Studio Code](https://aka.ms/LearnOnVSCode/?azure-portal=true) and the services that [Azure offers to explore data](https://azure.microsoft.com/overview/ai-platform/?azure-portal=true) you can start exploring data and discovering insights within an hour.

But more than that, the new services offered by many different companies create a new type of research. The hard work and dedication of NASA scientists who worked on the first rock samples and tracked weather patterns for launches, means there are now massive amounts of data. This data allows NASA to analyze large numbers of rocks, not just individual ones. NASA can now better equip astronauts with strategies for finding, identifying, and collecting rock samples that they know will further understanding. NASA can also begin to more accurately predict the right dates and times for rocket launches, saving money and increasingly the likelihood of success.

The type of research and innovation offered by services like Azure doesn't replace the critical work that happens before and after data exploration, but it does add another topic to the conversation. And NASA's data is free and open for all to use, so it opens the doors for more people who are interested in learning about space, people who might potentially discover something new, to begin their journey from a younger age. 

So while you may not be an expert geologist, an astronaut, or a literal rocket scientist, if you have the passion, interest, and persistence to begin this journey, the Microsoft Learn modules with NASA themes might be a *great* place to start.

Even if space exploration isn't your passion, the problems presented here offer creative ways of discovering through data that could apply to constraints you face elsewhere. Without the ability to take a quick trip back to the Moon, we have to deal with incomplete data about rock samples and still learn from them. Without the ability to launch a bunch of rockets on different days to determine the best weather conditions, we have to predict accurately, years in advance, when a rocket should launch *and* be able to abort the launch if conditions prove to be poor. These challenges in NASA-specific endeavors can be similar to other problems you might face in other industries. 