At this stage, maybe you've selected an approach to implementing certification in your courses or programs. As an educator, you might be well versed in the benefits of certification. However, to raise awareness, you need to communicate these benefits to your students and to the institution in general. 

Adopting certification helps address the global digital skills gap, particularly in the cloud computing space.<sup>1, 2, 3, 4</sup> Carefully deployed certification courses in degree programs can help prepare students for careers that are aligned to targeted, in-demand industry job roles. Certifications complement the conceptual elements of academic programs and create an opportunity for students to learn practical skills in cutting-edge technologies like Microsoft Azure. In short, improving graduate employment opportunities is a priority for higher education institutions, and certification courses with exams align with this priority.

At the University of Lincoln, students viewed achieving certification as a way to gain new skills and enhance their employability. Some students plan their study time to accommodate as many certification courses and exams as their schedule allows. Other students take a more measured and selective approach. Students appreciate the quality of the Microsoft Learn materials and their tutors' engagement with state-of-the-art technologies, like the cloud AI services that are part of the Microsoft Azure AI Fundamentals course.

In the competitive higher education market, students expect more from a degree program. For an institution, certification can be a unique selling point for recruitment and quality teaching, and to improve graduate employability.

From an employer’s perspective, certifications help prepare students for the workplace. Many employers have in-house training programs for graduates to complete when they join the company. These programs commonly include certification courses. The University of Lincoln fostered valuable relationships with companies that recognize the value of certification in the workplace. These companies view graduates who are equipped with certifications as more industry-ready because of the certification opportunities they accessed while completing their degree programs.

<sup>1</sup> [Microsoft Cloud Skills Report: Closing the Cloud Skills Chasm](https://download.microsoft.com/download/8/6/e/86e790d8-aace-4e2f-b4b2-dd848e13a048/Microsoft_Cloud_Skill_Report.pdf?azure-portal=true)</br>
<sup>2</sup> [Cloud Computing: Developing Contemporary Computer Science Curriculum for a Cloud-First Future](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3293881.3295781?azure-portal=true)</br>
<sup>3</sup> [Cloud Computing Curriculum: Developing Exemplar Modules for General Course Inclusion](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3437800.3439206?azure-portal=true)</br>
<sup>4</sup> [Embedding Certification into Bachelor’s Degrees](https://workcred.org/Documents/Embedding-Certifications-Into-Bachelors-Degrees-Certification-Degree-Pathways-Project-Framework-Report-November-2020.pdf?azure-portal=true)
