In this unit, you complete the *Coupon.API* project. You will then run a script to generate changes to the *WebSPA* HTML, as well as generate and modify Helm charts to define the kubernetes deployment.

## Add the coupon service

An ASP.NET Core project for the coupon service has been provided in *src/Services/Coupon*.

1. Open *src/Services/Coupon/Coupon.API/Controllers/CouponController.cs*.
1. Replace the comment `/* Add the GetCouponByCodeAsync method */` with the following code:

    ```csharp
    [HttpGet("{code}")]
    [ProducesResponseType(StatusCodes.Status200OK)]
    [ProducesResponseType(StatusCodes.Status400BadRequest)]
    [ProducesResponseType(StatusCodes.Status404NotFound)]
    public async Task<ActionResult<CouponDto>> GetCouponByCodeAsync(string code)
    {
        var coupon = await _couponRepository.FindCouponByCodeAsync(code);

        if (coupon is null || coupon.Consumed)
        {
            return NotFound();
        }

        var couponDto = _mapper.Translate(coupon);

        return couponDto;
    }
    ```

    In the preceding asynchronous action method:

    * The `CouponRepository` class' `FindCouponByCodeAsync` method retrieves the coupon corresponding to the provided `code` parameter value. The coupon is retrieved from a MongoDB database.
    * If the coupon returned is `null` or has already been used, an HTTP 404 status code is returned.
    * If the coupon returned isn't `null` and hasn't already been used, the `Coupon` object is converted to a `CouponDto` **D**ata **T**ransfer **O**bject (DTO). Finally, an HTTP 200 status code is returned along with the DTO.

1. Make the following changes to the `ConfigureServices` method in *src/Services/Coupon/Coupon.API/Startup.cs*

    [!code-csharp[](../code/src/services/coupon/coupon.api/temp-startup.cs?name=snippet_configureServices&highlight=13)]

    The preceding change adds the custom health check service to the app.

1. Also in *Startup.cs*, make the following changes to the `Configure` method:

    [!code-csharp[](../code/src/services/coupon/coupon.api/temp-startup.cs?name=snippet_configure&highlight=30-38)]

    The preceding change adds the readiness `/hc` and liveness `/liveness` endpoints for the custom health check service.

1. Run the following script in the command shell to make additional configuration changes for the coupon service:

    ```bash
    ./deploy/k8s/implementation-script.sh
    ```

    > [!TIP]
    > This module uses scripts to keep focus on the learning objectives. You may inspect the scripts in the Cloud Shell Editor to better understand how resources are provisioned.

    The preceding script:

    * Uncomments HTML markup in the *WebSPA* checkout and order details views to support accepting coupon codes and displaying discount amounts, respectively.
    * Creates a Helm chart for the coupon service in *deploy/k8s/helm-simple/*. 
    * Adds the coupon service endpoints to the aggregator Helm chart in *deploy/k8s/helm-simple/webshoppingagg/templates/configmap.yaml*
    * Adds the coupon health check to the *WebStatus* Helm chart in *deploy/k8s/helm-simple/webstatus/templates/configmap.yaml*.

    The Helm chart for the coupon service is comprised of five files in *deploy/k8s/helm-simple/coupon/*. These files are 

    | File | Description |
    |------|-------------|
    | *Chart.yaml* | %TODO% - Nish |
    | *templates/deployment.yaml* | %TODO% - Nish |
    | *templates/service.yaml* | %TODO% - Nish |
    | *templates/configmap.yaml* | %TODO% - Nish |
    | *templates/ingress.yaml* | %TODO% - Nish |

## Build the coupon service in Azure Container Registy

Run the following script in the command shell to build the coupon service container and the *WebSPA* container:

```bash
./deploy/k8s/build-to-acr.sh
```

The preceding script compiles and builds the containers in Azure Container Registry using the `az acr build` command with the provided *Dockerfile* files. ACR is not required to use AKS. Other public container repositories, such as Docker Hub, are supported. **%TODO%** - Nish, is there more to say here? 

> [!TIP]
> When using Visual Studio, a *Dockerfile* file such as the one used in the coupon service can be generated by right-clicking on the project in **Solution Explorer**, selecting **Add**, and selecting **Docker Support**.
