## The beginning of Azure SQL

Before you learn about Azure SQL and where it's going, let's briefly consider where it started. In 2008, at the [Microsoft Professional Developers Conference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=otuf3goxLsg), Microsoft's Chief Software Architect (at the time) [Ray Ozzie announced](https://news.microsoft.com/2008/10/27/microsoft-unveils-windows-azure-at-professional-developers-conference/#IP8XlBTCMpvORgaV.97) the new cloud computing operating system, Windows Azure (or "Project Red Dog"), which was later changed to Microsoft Azure. One of the five key components of the Azure Services Platform launch was "Microsoft SQL Services." From the beginning, SQL has been a big part of Azure. SQL Azure (then renamed to Azure SQL Database and now expanded to Azure SQL) was created to provide a cloud-hosted version of SQL Server.  

## Brief history

[An explanation](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/wiki/contents/articles/1308.select-an-edition-of-sql-server-for-application-development/revision/7.aspx) of when you would want to use the early Azure SQL Database (2010) is as follows: [Azure SQL Database] is a cloud database offering that Microsoft provides as part of the Azure cloud computing platform. Unlike other editions of SQL Server, you do not need to provision hardware for, install or patch [Azure SQL Database]; Microsoft maintains the platform for you. You also do not need to architect a database installation for scalability, high availability or disaster recovery as these features are provided automatically by the service. Any application that uses [Azure SQL Database] must have Internet access in order to connect to the database.  

This explanation still remains valid today, though the capabilities around security, performance, availability, and scale have been enhanced greatly. Azure SQL has evolved over the years to include Virtual Machine, Managed Instances, and several options for Databases. There are now multiple deployment options with the flexibility to scale to your needs, and there have been over seven million deployments of some form of Azure SQL. The architecture for Azure SQL has also evolved to meet the ever growing demands of applications. For example, the v12 architecture introduced in 2014 set the stage for new possibilities such as elastic databases, vCore choices, Business Critical deployments, Hyperscale, and Serverless architectures.  

Since 2008, SQL Server has changed a lot and Azure SQL has changed a lot. It's no surprise then that the role of the SQL Server professional has also changed a lot. The goal of this course is to help SQL Server professionals translate their existing skills to become not only better SQL Server professionals, but also Azure SQL professionals.  