learn-pr/wwl-azure/intro-to-azure-search/includes/2-what-is-azure-search.md, before:

Azure AI Search provides the infrastructure and tools to create search solutions that extract data from various structured, semi-structured, and non-structured documents. 

![Infographic of Azure Search.](../media/2-what-is-azure-search.png)

Azure AI Search results contain only your data, which can include text inferred or extracted from images, or new entities and key phrases detection through text analytics. It's a Platform as a Service (PaaS) solution. Microsoft manages the infrastructure and availability, allowing your organization to benefit without the need to purchase or manage dedicated hardware resources.

## Azure AI Search features 

Azure AI Search exists to complement existing technologies and provides a programmable search engine built on Apache Lucene, an open-source software library. It's a highly available platform offering a 99.9% uptime SLA available for cloud and on-premises assets.

Azure AI Search comes with the following features:

- **Data from any source**: accepts data from any source provided in JSON format, with auto crawling support for selected data sources in Azure.
- **Full text search and analysis**: offers full text search capabilities supporting both simple query and full Lucene query syntax.
- **AI powered search**: has Azure AI capabilities built in for image and text analysis from raw content.
- **Multi-lingual** offers linguistic analysis for 56 languages to intelligently handle phonetic matching or language-specific linguistics. Natural language processors available in Azure AI Search are also used by Bing and Office.
- **Geo-enabled**: supports geo-search filtering based on proximity to a physical location.
- **Configurable user experience**: has several features to improve the user experience including autocomplete, autosuggest, pagination, and hit highlighting.

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[2bd3c15c-9ee3-4232-8e53-68bd0f7b093a] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-azure/intro-to-azure-search/includes/2-what-is-azure-search.md, after:

Azure AI Search provides the infrastructure and tools to create search solutions that extract data from various structured, semi-structured, and non-structured documents. 

![Infographic of Azure Search.](../media/2-what-is-azure-search.png)

Azure AI Search results contain only your data, which can include text inferred or extracted from images, or new entities and key phrases detection through text analytics. It's a Platform as a Service (PaaS) solution. Microsoft manages the infrastructure and availability, allowing your organization to benefit without the need to purchase or manage dedicated hardware resources.

## Azure AI Search features 

Azure AI Search exists to complement existing technologies and provides a programmable search engine built on Apache Lucene, an open-source software library. It's a highly available platform offering a 99.9% uptime Service Level Agreement (SLA) available for cloud and on-premises assets.

Azure AI Search comes with the following features:

- **Data from any source**: accepts data from any source provided in JSON format, with auto crawling support for selected data sources in Azure.
- **Multiple options for search and analysis**: including vector search, full text, and hybrid search.
- **AI enrichment**: has Azure AI capabilities built in for image and text analysis from raw content.
- **Linguistic analysis**: offers analysis for 56 languages to intelligently handle phonetic matching or language-specific linguistics. Natural language processors available in Azure AI Search are also used by Bing and Office.
- **Configurable user experience**: has options for query syntax including vector queries, text search, hybrid queries, fuzzy search, autocomplete, geo-search filtering based on proximity to a physical location, and more.
- **Azure scale, security, and integration**: at the data layer, machine learning layer, and with Azure AI services and Azure OpenAI.
