<!-- Original file: C:\Users\Mark\Desktop\CMU\v_5_3\content\_u02_data_centers\_u02_m02_components_and_design\x-oli-workbook_page\_u02_m02_4_costs.xml -->
##  Data Center Costs
As you may recall from Unit 1, organizations have to deal with capital expenses and operating expenses for their IT projects. For new companies with an anticipated need for many servers, or for existing companies that have outgrown their existing infrastructure, a decision must be made to build a new data center, expand existing facilities, or migrate some (or all) of their IT services to a cloud provider. With rising energy costs, companies with existing (but outdated) data centers would also consider building a new data center or retrofitting the existing one with new power/cooling. Many scenarios, such a retrofit, might cause unacceptable downtime, so they would instead choose to go to a new location and migrate servers/services from the old location to a new data center. In any of the above scenarios, a detailed cost analysis would be helpful in making the decision (and likely required before any budgetary approvals).

Prices fluctuate often. What was valid in 2011 might not be valid in 2014. The intent of this section is not to give you the tools to do an entire cost analysis on your own but rather to help you understand the types of expenses that go into building a data center.

##  Capital Expenditures (CapEx)
Capital expenses (which occur only once) for data centers include upfront planning, cost of property and/or construction, facilities equipment (power, HVAC, safety, and security), as well as IT equipment (servers, network switches, initial network connectivity). A more detailed explanation of each follows:

 _Upfront planning:_ Upfront planning design costs account for a significant portion of CapEx. This typically includes feasibility and impact studies, architectural design, engineering design, project management costs, and contingency costs. A recent Forrester research studyestimates these costs to range from 20% to 25% of the total cost for a typical data center.

 _Property costs:_ A principal expense incurred in building data centers is the cost of property. This, of course, varies significantly depending on location. Organizations typically have the option of either constructing a building from scratch or to repurpose an existing building to be a data center.

When building from scratch, many costs, such as the real estate transaction, consultant, brokerage, and building permits, apply in addition to the actual cost of building the data center "shell," which could include excavation, grading, roadways, utility connections, and physical security. <!-- Reed construction data<link href="http://www.reedconstructiondata.com/rsmeans/models/data-center/" >link</link> -->[Reed Construction Data](http://www.reedconstructiondata.com/rsmeans/models/data-center/) has estimates for the United States and are typically between $200 to $300 per square foot, depending on the type of building and labor.

Many organizations opt to repurpose existing buildings, particularly those that have been abandoned, such as factories or mills, among others. Google's [Hamina data center](http://www.google.com/about/datacenters/locations/hamina/) in Finland<!-- <link href="http://www.google.com/about/datacenters/locations/hamina/">link</link> --> was repurposed from an old paper mill. [Barcelona Supercomputing Center](http://www.bsc.es/about-bsc/gallery)<!-- <link href="http://www.bsc.es/about-bsc/gallery">link</link> --> is an example of an old chapel repurposed as a data center site.

Leasing a building or subleasing space in a building can also be done, shifting this capital expense to an operating expense.

 _Facilities equipment:_ Some heavy equipment is often installed during the construction phase, and once the building shell is complete, data center–specific facilities can be built, and equipment needs to be procured and commissioned. This includes most of the equipment outlined in the "Facilities" page in the "Data Center Components" module, such as cooling (CRACs, chillers, condensers, water tanks), electrical equipment (power distribution, generators, transformers, UPSs, automated transfer switch), and fire detection and suppression systems (FM-200).

Estimates for the cost of HVAC and electrical equipment are approximately $7,000 to $20,000 per kilowatt of IT load. In addition, fire suppression systems costs can range from $20,000 to $60,000 for a typical data center spanning several thousand square feet.

 _IT equipment and connectivity:_ Once the data center facility is ready, equipment can be moved in and installed. Typically, this involves purchasing rack-mountable servers and networking and rack power distribution equipment. In larger data center environments, it is becoming increasingly popular to roll out fully containerized servers with integrated power, cooling, and network management. IT equipment costs can vary widely depending on the size and configuration of the hardware.

In addition to IT equipment, the data center needs to have a dedicated network connection in order for it to be accessible to the organization that is using it. Network service providers typically charge an upfront average of $10,000/mile to install and commission fiber to a data center.

##  Operating Expenditures
Operational expenditures (periodically recurring) for data centers typically include electrical power, staffing, cooling/HVAC, Internet uplink, maintenance, taxes, and/or leasing.

One of the biggest operational expenses in running a data center is the power, and it can account for approximately 70% to 80% of the overall cost of running a data center. Electrical utility charges to industrial sectors (which differs from residential pricing) can vary significantly from state to state and country to country. In the United States, the [Energy Information Administration (EIA)](http://www.eia.gov/electricity/data.cfm#sales), an entity within the U.S. Department of Energy, publishes regular reports on power costs broken down by state and sector. The [International Energy Agency (IEA)](http://www.iea.org/stats/index.asp) publishes energy data for other countries as well. It is also important to note that the cost of power has been rising over the past few years.<!-- <link href="http://www.eia.gov/electricity/annual/html/table7.4.cfm">link</link> Added citation instead ~C Lallier --> Because power forms a large percentage of operational expenses and total cost of ownership (TCO), large data centers tend to be placed in regions with cheaper sources of power, whenever possible.

 _Staffing:_ Even though data centers can house thousands of servers, they are relatively efficient in terms of number of personnel per server. However, data centers still need a number of operational staff such, as twenty-four seven security and an on-site engineering staff. In countries in which labor is expensive, this cost will end up being the second-largest recurring expense after power. These costs can run into hundreds of thousands of dollars per year, depending on the location and staffing levels.

 _Cooling:_ Cooling costs also amount to a significant portion of data center expenses. According to a study by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), data center cooling consumes 42% of the total power drawn by traditional, inefficient data centers.<!-- <link href="http://bnrg.eecs.berkeley.edu/~randy/Courses/CS294.F09/wharehousesizedcomputers.pdf" >link</link> I added citation and deleted link --> Many organizations are now paying attention to new techniques to reduce the amount of power required to keep a data center cool. [ASHRAE](https://www.ashrae.org/) has also published thermal guidelines for data center designers to plan and correctly configure cooling systems to maximize efficiency.<!-- <link href="http://www.eni.com/green-data-center/it_IT/static/pdf/ASHRAE_1.pdf" >link</link> I could not find this publication (I got a page error), so I just put a link in for ASHRAE, which has a seach feature. ~C Lallier -->

 _Connectivity:_ In addition to upfront installation and commissioning costs, network connectivity is usually charged monthly or quarterly from a service provider. The fee is typically in the range of several hundred or thousand dollars per month, based on the bandwidth and reliability guarantees of the connection.

 _Maintenance:_ Purpose-built data centers also incur significant maintenance overheads in order to keep the facility running smoothly and to minimize downtime. This cost could be 3% to 5% of the initial construction costs. In addition, facilities equipment may need periodic replacement or repair. For example, UPS batteries are replaced once in 5 years, on average. 

 _Taxes and/or leasing:_ Building permits are required when building new data center shells or if an existing building's structure is altered significantly. Organizations also need to pay some form of annual property tax on the property owned. This cost, like others, can vary considerably from region to region. Average taxes are estimated to be $70 per square foot in the United States. If you are leasing a property, many of these taxes are included in the monthly price of your lease. 