Use Azure IoT Central to quickly evaluate your IoT scenario and assess the opportunities it can create for your business.

Suppose you work at a retail company as the IT expert. Your company found that environmental conditions are a key way to differentiate their stores from their competitors' stores. Your company now wants to maintain pleasant conditions within their stores for the comfort of their customers. It needs a solution to *connect*, *monitor*, and *manage* environmental monitoring devices. You're asked to enable device environment telemetry data to store managers in one store, and assess the operating costs and customer experience improvements generated by new business insights. Your current team has no experience in IoT projects.

In this module, you determine when to use IoT Central to quickly evaluate your IoT scenario. Then you create and deploy an end-to-end solution using the IoT Central *In-store Analytics - Checkout* application template. The template allows you to digitally connect and monitor a store's environment through various sensor devices. It also allows you to assess the opportunities it can create for your business.

After completing this module, you're able to evaluate whether IoT Central is appropriate to quickly assess your IoT scenario. You're able to describe how IoT Central works to quickly connect devices, monitor device conditions, and create rules. You're also able to describe how IoT Central manages devices and their data throughout their life cycle, and extend IoT intelligence into line-of-business applications.