


There are built-in diagnostics to assist with debugging an App Service app. In this lesson, you will learn how to enable diagnostic logging and add instrumentation to your application, as well as how to access the information logged by Azure.

The table below shows the types of logging, the platforms supported, and where the logs can be stored and located for accessing the information.

| Type | Platform | Location | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| Application logging | Windows, Linux | App Service file system and/or Azure Storage blobs | Logs messages generated by your application code. The messages can be generated by the web framework you choose, or from your application code directly using the standard logging pattern of your language. Each message is assigned one of the following categories: **Critical**, **Error**, **Warning**, **Info**, **Debug**, and **Trace**. |
| Web server logging | Windows | App Service file system or Azure Storage blobs | Raw HTTP request data in the W3C extended log file format. Each log message includes data like the HTTP method, resource URI, client IP, client port, user agent, response code, and so on. |
| Detailed error logging | Windows | App Service file system | Copies of the *.html* error pages that would have been sent to the client browser. For security reasons, detailed error pages shouldn't be sent to clients in production, but App Service can save the error page each time an application error occurs that has HTTP code 400 or greater. |
| Failed request tracing | Windows | App Service file system | Detailed tracing information on failed requests, including a trace of the IIS components used to process the request and the time taken in each component. One folder is generated for each failed request, which contains the XML log file, and the XSL stylesheet to view the log file with. |
| Deployment logging | Windows, Linux | App Service file system | Helps determine why a deployment failed. Deployment logging happens automatically and there are no configurable settings for deployment logging. |

## Enable application logging (Windows)

1. To enable application logging for Windows apps in the Azure portal, navigate to your app and select **App Service logs**.

1. Select **On** for either **Application Logging (Filesystem)** or **Application Logging (Blob)**, or both. The **Filesystem** option is for temporary debugging purposes, and turns itself off in 12 hours. The **Blob** option is for long-term logging, and needs a blob storage container to write logs to.

1. You can also set the **Level** of details included in the log as shown in the table below.

    | Level | Included categories |
    |--|--|
    | **Disabled** | None |
    | **Error** | Error, Critical |
    | **Warning** | Warning, Error, Critical |
    | **Information** | Info, Warning, Error, Critical |
    | **Verbose** | Trace, Debug, Info, Warning, Error, Critical (all categories) |

1. When finished, select **Save**.

## Enable application logging (Linux/Container)

1. In **App Service logs** set the **Application logging** option to **File System**.

1. In **Quota (MB)**, specify the disk quota for the application logs. In **Retention Period (Days)**, set the number of days the logs should be retained.

1. When finished, select **Save**.

## Enable web server logging

1. For **Web server logging**, select **Storage** to store logs on blob storage, or **File System** to store logs on the App Service file system.

1. In **Retention Period (Days)**, set the number of days the logs should be retained.

1. When finished, select **Save**.

## Add log messages in code

In your application code, you use the usual logging facilities to send log messages to the application logs. For example:

* ASP.NET applications can use the `System.Diagnostics.Trace` class to log information to the application diagnostics log. For example:
 
    ```csharp
    System.Diagnostics.Trace.TraceError("If you're seeing this, something bad happened");
    ```

* By default, ASP.NET Core uses the `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.AzureAppServices` logging provider.

## Stream logs

Before you stream logs in real time, enable the log type that you want. Any information written to files ending in .txt, .log, or .htm that are stored in the `/LogFiles` directory (`d:/home/logfiles`) is streamed by App Service.

> [!NOTE] 
> Some types of logging buffer write to the log file, which can result in out of order events in the stream. For example, an application log entry that occurs when a user visits a page may be displayed in the stream before the corresponding HTTP log entry for the page request.

* Azure portal - To stream logs in the Azure portal, navigate to your app and select **Log stream**.

* Azure CLI - To stream logs live in Cloud Shell, use the following command:
    ```bash
    az webapp log tail --name appname --resource-group myResourceGroup
    ```

* Local console - To stream logs in the local console, install Azure CLI and sign in to your account. Once signed in, follow the instructions for Azure CLI above.

## Access log files

If you configure the Azure Storage blobs option for a log type, you need a client tool that works with Azure Storage. 

For logs stored in the App Service file system, the easiest way is to download the ZIP file in the browser at:

* Linux/container apps: `https://<app-name>.scm.azurewebsites.net/api/logs/docker/zip`
* Windows apps: `https://<app-name>.scm.azurewebsites.net/api/dump`

For Linux/container apps, the ZIP file contains console output logs for both the docker host and the docker container. For a scaled-out app, the ZIP file contains one set of logs for each instance. In the App Service file system, these log files are the contents of the */home/LogFiles* directory.
