In earlier Microsoft Learn modules for the Cloud Adoption Framework, we shared the narrative of Tailwind Traders. This module is the next step toward Tailwind's cloud adoption journey. The Tailwind Traders team is evaluating how its organizational structure should evolve as it undergoes a paradigm shift within its IT operations.

The Tailwind Traders IT team continues to move away from its on-premises data centers toward the cloud. When IT was largely contained within its own data center, the IT team focused on enforcing control. Because a data center is only as smart as what you invest into it, automation typically occurred only at rudimentary levels. A significant amount of human action was therefore required to create controls and maintain the central responsibility structure.

:::image type="content" source="../media/paradigm-shift.png" alt-text="Illustration contrasting central responsibility and delegated responsibility." border="false":::

In the image above, workloads are represented by cars. Cars traveling over the roads require traffic lights and human beings to direct them. While this way of working makes sense in an on-premises data center world, some companies continue this way of doing things when they move to the cloud.  

However, when a company moves to the cloud, the cloud automatically makes every workload—or in this case every car—smarter. Each car now has GPS, collision detectors, speed controls, etc., to allow them to navigate the road without human assistance. Tailwind Traders is excited about this opportunity to shift away from acting as a traffic cop who enforces control. The IT team would rather focus on an “enable and support” mindset and create a Cloud Center of Excellence that can safely accelerate innovation. By making this shift, the Central IT team will invest more of their time on laying out the infrastructure, automated guardrails, and other protections required to ensure cars can move freely. This enables more freedom and delegates more responsibility to the workload teams so they can make strategic decisions.

In the data center model, IT functions typically work independently of each other. Each team creates a boundary, and any changes require human intervention. But that type of workflow can be a barrier to innovation because change control can often take months, perhaps even years. As Tailwind Traders makes a paradigm shift to enable more freedom and delegated responsibility, the organization looks slightly different. First, they invite cloud strategy leads from the business to help them prioritize and make decisions based on expected business priorities. Second, central IT becomes less critical and the organization begins to shift to a Cloud Center of Excellence model. The organization also begins to rely more on automation, asking themselves questions such as, how do we apply security in a way that ensures our security rules are followed and workload teams know about them? How do we create automated guard rails and a cloud governance team so that if somebody breaks a rule, they can't deploy (or can easily follow an approved exception process)? And how do we build all this on a sound platform (Azure Landing Zones) with appropriate automation to allow teams to be more agile?

For Tailwind Traders, it’s about bringing together the modules they've already completed to force an organizational shift so their IT team supports innovation as opposed to blocking it.
