The Microsoft and SAP partnership gives rise to a series of groundbreaking innovations that utilize both companies’ strengths to deliver endless benefits to customers. In this unit, we explore the most recent exciting developments from the Microsoft and SAP partnership and how they’re transforming the enterprise landscape.

## Integration of Microsoft 365 Copilot, Copilot for Microsoft Viva Learning, and SAP SuccessFactors

As the world changes and technology advances, the potential for AI to create business value for customers and partners is real. Recently, Microsoft announced AI innovation across [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/blog/2023/03/16/introducing-microsoft-365-copilot-a-whole-new-way-to-work/), [Microsoft Viva](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/copilot-in-microsoft-viva/ct-p/CopilotViva), [Dynamics 365](https://blogs.microsoft.com/blog/2023/03/06/introducing-microsoft-dynamics-365-copilot/), [Microsoft Security](https://blogs.microsoft.com/blog/2023/03/28/introducing-microsoft-security-copilot-empowering-defenders-at-the-speed-of-ai/), and [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/cognitive-services/openai-service/). Now, both companies collaborate on integrating SAP® SuccessFactors® solutions with Microsoft 365 Copilot and Copilot for Microsoft Viva Learning. Also, Microsoft’s Azure OpenAI Service to access powerful language models that analyze and generate natural language. The integration enables new experiences designed to improve how organizations attract, retain, and skill their people. 

Through this collaboration and SAP’s use of the Azure OpenAI Service API, Microsoft and SAP work together on new experiences that streamline recruiting and employee development processes, including: 

* **Recruiting:** SAP applies the Azure OpenAI Service API and data from SAP SuccessFactors solutions to create compelling and highly targeted job descriptions. Integration between SAP SuccessFactors Recruiting solution and Microsoft 365 Copilot people leaders are able to fine-tune job descriptions in Microsoft Word with other content and checks to detect bias. The final job descriptions are published in SAP SuccessFactors solutions to complete the workflow, without people leaders having to leave their normal flow of work. SAP uses the Azure OpenAI Service API to offer prompts to interviewers within Microsoft Teams with suggested questions based on a candidate’s resume, the job description, and similar jobs. 

* **Learning:** Integration between SAP SuccessFactors solutions and Microsoft Viva Learning enables employees to use Copilot in Viva Learning to conduct natural language queries to create personalized learning recommendations based on data and learning courses in SAP SuccessFactors solutions that align with the employee’s career and development goals. As learning is completed, the SAP SuccessFactors growth portfolio updates automatically, providing companies an up-to-date view of the skills landscape in their organization. This enhancement builds on an already robust integration with content, assignment, permissions, and single sign-on (SSO) sync, available now, and an automated admin setup experience available to customers later this year. 

