learn-pr/azure/control-access-to-azure-storage-with-sas/includes/4-exercise-use-shared-access-signatures.md, before:

Azure Storage enables you to authorize access to files with a shared key, with a shared access signature (SAS), or via Microsoft Entra ID. With a SAS, you control what a client can do with the files and for how long.

Your company's image diagnostic system accesses its patient images internally via a shared key. You need to create an API to allow third parties access to diagnostic images. You create a test page on your web app to see how a SAS can help you grant secure access to third-party clients.

In this exercise, you create a storage account and upload some example patient images. You deploy your team's existing web app and test that it can access the storage. The last step is to add C# and JavaScript code to generate a SAS token on demand to view the images securely.

:::image type="content" source="../media/4-app-running.png" alt-text="Screenshot of your company's patient diagnostic image system showing three images." loc-scope="other"::: <!-- no-loc -->

### Create a storage account and upload images

1. Using Azure Cloud Shell, enter the following code to create a storage account for patient images. The code generates a storage account name.

    ```azurecli
    export STORAGENAME=medicalrecords$RANDOM

    az storage account create \
        --name $STORAGENAME \
        --access-tier hot \
        --kind StorageV2 \
        --resource-group "<rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn>"
    ```

1. Create a container under the storage account for storing the images.

    ```azurecli
    az storage container create \
        --name patient-images \
        --account-name $STORAGENAME \
        --public-access off
    ```

1. Clone your team's existing web app. This repository contains example images used by your team for testing.

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-control-access-to-azure-storage-with-sas.git sas
    ```

1. Use the Azure CLI upload-batch command to upload the images into your storage account.

    ```azurecli
    az storage blob upload-batch \
        --source sas \
        --destination patient-images \
        --account-name $STORAGENAME \
        --pattern *.jpg
    ```

### Test the patient diagnostic image system

1. Open the **appsettings.json** file in code editor so we can add the connection string for your storage account.

    ```bash
    code sas/appsettings.json
    ```

1. In Cloud Shell, enter the following code to obtain the connection string to your storage account.

    ```azurecli
    az storage account show-connection-string --name $STORAGENAME
    ```

    You should see a response in this format:

    ```json
    {
      "connectionString": "DefaultEndpointsProtocol=https;EndpointSuffix=core.windows.net;AccountName=<account-name>;AccountKey=<account-key>"
    }
    ```

    Copy the connectionString value, including the quotation marks.

1. In code editor, replace the ConnectionString value `"[connection string]"` with the string you copied.

1. Copy the value for `AccountName=` in the body of the connection string.

1. Replace the value for the AccountName parameter with the account name value you copied.

1. Copy the value for `AccountKey=` in the body of the connection string (don't include the quotation mark). Make sure to include the `==` at the end of the value.

1. Replace the value of the AccountKey parameter with the account key value you copied.

1. The **appsettings.json** file should now look similar to this output.

    ```json
    {
      "Logging": {
        "LogLevel": {
          "Default": "Warning"
        }
      },
      "AllowedHosts": "*",
      "StorageAccount": {
        "ConnectionString": "DefaultEndpointsProtocol=https;AccountName=<account-name>;AccountKey=<account-key>;EndpointSuffix=core.windows.net",
        "Container" : "patient-images",
        "AccountName":"<account-name>",
        "AccountKey":"<account-key>"
      }  
    }
    ```
 
1. Save and close the code editor by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+S</kbd>, and then selecting <kbd>Ctrl+Q</kbd>.

1. Open a port so you can access your web app when it's running in Cloud Shell.

    ```bash
    curl -X POST http://localhost:8888/openPort/8000;
    ```

    This command returns a `url` where your app can be accessed.

    ```json
    {"message":"Port 8000 is open","url":"https://gateway11.northeurope.console.azure.com/n/cc-4016c848/cc-4016c848/proxy/8000/"}
    ```

1. Run your app.

    ```bash
    cd sas
    dotnet run
    ```

    When the app has compiled, the Cloud Shell console displays details similar to the following example.

    ```bash
    Hosting environment: Development
    Content root path: /home/<yourusername>/sas
    Now listening on: https://localhost:8001
    Now listening on: http://localhost:8000
    Application started. Press Ctrl+C to shut down.
    ```

1. In a browser, paste the URL returned by the previous cURL command. Make sure you include the slash (/) at the end of the address.

    The URL should be in this format: `https://gateway11.northeurope.console.azure.com/n/cc-4016c848/cc-4016c848/proxy/8000/`.

    If you're prompted to sign in, refresh your browser window. The **Lamna Healthcare** Patient Diagnostic Image System appears.

1. Select **Get all patients** to view a listing of all the images in the storage account.

### Add code to create a SAS

1. In the Cloud Shell, stop the web app by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd>.

1. Let's enhance the **PatientRecordController** class to create an on-demand SAS and return it to the front end of the web app.

1. Enter the following code to open the **PatientRecordController.cs** file in the code editor.

    ```bash
    code Controllers/PatientRecordController.cs
    ```

1. Add the following code to the bottom of the class under the `GET PatientRecord/patient-nnnnnn` method.

    ```C#
    // GET PatientRecord/patient-nnnnnn/secure
    [HttpGet("{Name}/{secure}")]
    public PatientRecord Get(string name, string flag)
    {
        BlobClient blob = _container.GetBlobClient(name);
        return new PatientRecord { name=blob.Name, imageURI=blob.Uri.AbsoluteUri, sasToken=GetBlobSas(blob) };
    }
    ```

    This method returns the requested patient image with a SAS that can be used to access it.

1. Add a method that creates the SAS for the blob.

    ```C#
    // Build a SAS token for the given blob
    private string GetBlobSas(BlobClient blob)
    {
        // Create a user SAS that only allows reading for a minute
        BlobSasBuilder sas = new BlobSasBuilder 
        {
            BlobContainerName = blob.BlobContainerName,
            BlobName = blob.Name,
            Resource = "b",
            ExpiresOn = DateTimeOffset.UtcNow.AddMinutes(1)
        };
        // Allow read access
        sas.SetPermissions(BlobSasPermissions.Read);

        // Use the shared key to access the blob
        var storageSharedKeyCredential = new StorageSharedKeyCredential(
            _iconfiguration.GetValue<string>("StorageAccount:AccountName"),
            _iconfiguration.GetValue<string>("StorageAccount:AccountKey")
        );

        return '?' + sas.ToSasQueryParameters(storageSharedKeyCredential).ToString();
    }
    ```

    This method uses the passed `BlobClient` object to create a `BlobSasBuilder` to generate a SAS that is read-only and expires in one minute.

1. Save the file by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+S</kbd>, and then and quit the editor by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+Q</kbd>.

### Add code to use the SAS

Let's add code to the webpage to request the SAS for the image.

1. Enter the following command to edit the **external.cshtml** page.

    ```bash
    code Pages/external.cshtml

    ```

1. Near the end of the file, in the click listener for `#btn-submit`, modify the `$.get` line to add `+ '/secure'`:

    ```javascript
    $('#btn-submit').click(function(){
        $('#result').empty();
        $.get('api/PatientRecords/' + $('#patientID').val() + '/secure', function (data) {
            var imageURL = data.imageURI + $('#sasKey').val();
            $('#result').html('<img id="patientScan" class="alert alert-success" src="' + imageURL + '" alt="patient scan" onerror="this.classList.remove(\'alert-success\'); this.classList.add(\'alert-danger\')"//>');
        }, 'json');
    });
    ```

1. Below the `#btn-submit` click listener function, at the bottom of the file, above the `</script>` tag, add the following code:

    ```javascript
    $('#btn-getKey').click(function(){
        $.get('api/PatientRecords/' + $('#patientID').val() + '/secure', function (data) {
            $('#sasKey').val(data.sasToken);
        }, 'json');
    });
    ```

    This jQuery code adds a click listener on the `btn-getKey` button. The code executes an Ajax call to the new secure URL for the given image file. When it returns, it populates the key input box with the SAS.

1. Save the changes by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+S</kbd>, and then and quit the editor by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+Q</kbd>.

### Test your changes

1. Run your updated app.

    ```bash
    dotnet run
    ```

1. In your browser, refresh the tab for your web site. Select **Get all patients**, and then copy one of the image filenames.

1. In the menu at the top of the web page, select **External companies**.

1. Paste the filename into the **Patient image filename** field.

1. Select **View scan**. The patient scan image isn't accessible because you haven't created a SAS.

    > [!NOTE]
    > If you are viewing the console in your browser, you'll see the web server returned a 404 error-code message.

1. Select **Get Key**, which should populate the **Key** field with a SAS.

1. Select **View scan**. The patient's diagnostic image should appear.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/4-viewing-image.png" alt-text="Screenshot of API for external companies showing a patient's image." loc-scope="other":::

1. In your browser, right-click the image and copy the image address.

1. Open a new browser tab, paste the copied image address in the address bar, and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>. If it's been longer than a minute since you created the SAS, you should see an error message. If it's been less than a minute, the image should display. 

    >[!NOTE] 
    >You might need to refresh the page.

    ```xml
    <Error>
        <Code>AuthenticationFailed</Code>
        <Message>Server failed to authenticate the request. Make sure the value of Authorization header is formed correctly, including the signature.
        RequestId:03eda893-f01e-0028-2d73-c5c947000000
        Time:2021-01-07T16:02:55.3752851Z</Message>
        <AuthenticationErrorDetail>Signed expiry time [Tue, 07 Jan 2021 16:02:00 GMT] must be after signed start time [Tue, 07 Jan 2021 16:02:55 GMT]</AuthenticationErrorDetail>
    </Error>
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > To view this error message from some browsers, you may need to open a new browser window that won't have cached the image.

1. In Cloud Shell, quit the web app by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd>.

Commit message:

User Feedback 291141: UUF - Fix Cloud Shell step inconsistency per UUF feedback

learn-pr/azure/control-access-to-azure-storage-with-sas/includes/4-exercise-use-shared-access-signatures.md, after:

Azure Storage enables you to authorize access to files with a shared key, with a shared access signature (SAS), or via Microsoft Entra ID. With a SAS, you control what a client can do with the files and for how long.

Your company's image diagnostic system accesses its patient images internally via a shared key. You need to create an API to allow third parties access to diagnostic images. You create a test page on your web app to see how a SAS can help you grant secure access to third-party clients.

In this exercise, you create a storage account and upload some example patient images. You deploy your team's existing web app and test that it can access the storage. The last step is to add C# and JavaScript code to generate a SAS token on demand to view the images securely.

:::image type="content" source="../media/4-app-running.png" alt-text="Screenshot of your company's patient diagnostic image system showing three images." loc-scope="other"::: <!-- no-loc -->

### Create a storage account and upload images

1. In the Cloud Shell window on the right side of the screen, select the **More** icon (**...**), then select **Settings** > **Go to Classic version**.

1. Using Azure Cloud Shell, enter the following code to create a storage account for patient images. The code generates a storage account name.

    ```azurecli
    export STORAGENAME=medicalrecords$RANDOM

    az storage account create \
        --name $STORAGENAME \
        --access-tier hot \
        --kind StorageV2 \
        --resource-group "<rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn>"
    ```

1. Create a container under the storage account for storing the images.

    ```azurecli
    az storage container create \
        --name patient-images \
        --account-name $STORAGENAME \
        --public-access off
    ```

1. Clone your team's existing web app. This repository contains example images used by your team for testing.

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-control-access-to-azure-storage-with-sas.git sas
    ```

1. Use the Azure CLI upload-batch command to upload the images into your storage account.

    ```azurecli
    az storage blob upload-batch \
        --source sas \
        --destination patient-images \
        --account-name $STORAGENAME \
        --pattern *.jpg
    ```

### Test the patient diagnostic image system

1. Open the **appsettings.json** file in code editor so we can add the connection string for your storage account.

    ```bash
    code sas/appsettings.json
    ```

1. In Cloud Shell, enter the following code to obtain the connection string to your storage account.

    ```azurecli
    az storage account show-connection-string --name $STORAGENAME
    ```

    You should see a response in this format:

    ```json
    {
      "connectionString": "DefaultEndpointsProtocol=https;EndpointSuffix=core.windows.net;AccountName=<account-name>;AccountKey=<account-key>"
    }
    ```

    Copy the connectionString value, including the quotation marks.

1. In code editor, replace the ConnectionString value `"[connection string]"` with the string you copied.

1. Copy the value for `AccountName=` in the body of the connection string.

1. Replace the value for the AccountName parameter with the account name value you copied.

1. Copy the value for `AccountKey=` in the body of the connection string (don't include the quotation mark). Make sure to include the `==` at the end of the value.

1. Replace the value of the AccountKey parameter with the account key value you copied.

1. The **appsettings.json** file should now look similar to this output.

    ```json
    {
      "Logging": {
        "LogLevel": {
          "Default": "Warning"
        }
      },
      "AllowedHosts": "*",
      "StorageAccount": {
        "ConnectionString": "DefaultEndpointsProtocol=https;AccountName=<account-name>;AccountKey=<account-key>;EndpointSuffix=core.windows.net",
        "Container" : "patient-images",
        "AccountName":"<account-name>",
        "AccountKey":"<account-key>"
      }  
    }
    ```
 
1. Save and close the code editor by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+S</kbd>, and then selecting <kbd>Ctrl+Q</kbd>.

1. Open a port so you can access your web app when it's running in Cloud Shell.

    ```bash
    curl -X POST http://localhost:8888/openPort/8000;
    ```

    This command returns a `url` where your app can be accessed.

    ```json
    {"message":"Port 8000 is open","url":"https://gateway11.northeurope.console.azure.com/n/cc-4016c848/cc-4016c848/proxy/8000/"}
    ```

1. Run your app.

    ```bash
    cd sas
    dotnet run
    ```

    When the app has compiled, the Cloud Shell console displays details similar to the following example.

    ```bash
    Hosting environment: Development
    Content root path: /home/<yourusername>/sas
    Now listening on: https://localhost:8001
    Now listening on: http://localhost:8000
    Application started. Press Ctrl+C to shut down.
    ```

1. In a browser, paste the URL returned by the previous cURL command. Make sure you include the slash (/) at the end of the address.

    The URL should be in this format: `https://gateway11.northeurope.console.azure.com/n/cc-4016c848/cc-4016c848/proxy/8000/`.

    If you're prompted to sign in, refresh your browser window. The **Lamna Healthcare** Patient Diagnostic Image System appears.

1. Select **Get all patients** to view a listing of all the images in the storage account.

### Add code to create a SAS

1. In the Cloud Shell, stop the web app by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd>.

1. Let's enhance the **PatientRecordController** class to create an on-demand SAS and return it to the front end of the web app.

1. Enter the following code to open the **PatientRecordController.cs** file in the code editor.

    ```bash
    code Controllers/PatientRecordController.cs
    ```

1. Add the following code to the bottom of the class under the `GET PatientRecord/patient-nnnnnn` method.

    ```C#
    // GET PatientRecord/patient-nnnnnn/secure
    [HttpGet("{Name}/{secure}")]
    public PatientRecord Get(string name, string flag)
    {
        BlobClient blob = _container.GetBlobClient(name);
        return new PatientRecord { name=blob.Name, imageURI=blob.Uri.AbsoluteUri, sasToken=GetBlobSas(blob) };
    }
    ```

    This method returns the requested patient image with a SAS that can be used to access it.

1. Add a method that creates the SAS for the blob.

    ```C#
    // Build a SAS token for the given blob
    private string GetBlobSas(BlobClient blob)
    {
        // Create a user SAS that only allows reading for a minute
        BlobSasBuilder sas = new BlobSasBuilder 
        {
            BlobContainerName = blob.BlobContainerName,
            BlobName = blob.Name,
            Resource = "b",
            ExpiresOn = DateTimeOffset.UtcNow.AddMinutes(1)
        };
        // Allow read access
        sas.SetPermissions(BlobSasPermissions.Read);

        // Use the shared key to access the blob
        var storageSharedKeyCredential = new StorageSharedKeyCredential(
            _iconfiguration.GetValue<string>("StorageAccount:AccountName"),
            _iconfiguration.GetValue<string>("StorageAccount:AccountKey")
        );

        return '?' + sas.ToSasQueryParameters(storageSharedKeyCredential).ToString();
    }
    ```

    This method uses the passed `BlobClient` object to create a `BlobSasBuilder` to generate a SAS that is read-only and expires in one minute.

1. Save the file by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+S</kbd>, and then and quit the editor by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+Q</kbd>.

### Add code to use the SAS

Let's add code to the webpage to request the SAS for the image.

1. Enter the following command to edit the **external.cshtml** page.

    ```bash
    code Pages/external.cshtml

    ```

1. Near the end of the file, in the click listener for `#btn-submit`, modify the `$.get` line to add `+ '/secure'`:

    ```javascript
    $('#btn-submit').click(function(){
        $('#result').empty();
        $.get('api/PatientRecords/' + $('#patientID').val() + '/secure', function (data) {
            var imageURL = data.imageURI + $('#sasKey').val();
            $('#result').html('<img id="patientScan" class="alert alert-success" src="' + imageURL + '" alt="patient scan" onerror="this.classList.remove(\'alert-success\'); this.classList.add(\'alert-danger\')"//>');
        }, 'json');
    });
    ```

1. Below the `#btn-submit` click listener function, at the bottom of the file, above the `</script>` tag, add the following code:

    ```javascript
    $('#btn-getKey').click(function(){
        $.get('api/PatientRecords/' + $('#patientID').val() + '/secure', function (data) {
            $('#sasKey').val(data.sasToken);
        }, 'json');
    });
    ```

    This jQuery code adds a click listener on the `btn-getKey` button. The code executes an Ajax call to the new secure URL for the given image file. When it returns, it populates the key input box with the SAS.

1. Save the changes by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+S</kbd>, and then and quit the editor by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+Q</kbd>.

### Test your changes

1. Run your updated app.

    ```bash
    dotnet run
    ```

1. In your browser, refresh the tab for your web site. Select **Get all patients**, and then copy one of the image filenames.

1. In the menu at the top of the web page, select **External companies**.

1. Paste the filename into the **Patient image filename** field.

1. Select **View scan**. The patient scan image isn't accessible because you haven't created a SAS.

    > [!NOTE]
    > If you are viewing the console in your browser, you'll see the web server returned a 404 error-code message.

1. Select **Get Key**, which should populate the **Key** field with a SAS.

1. Select **View scan**. The patient's diagnostic image should appear.

    :::image type="content" source="../media/4-viewing-image.png" alt-text="Screenshot of API for external companies showing a patient's image." loc-scope="other":::

1. In your browser, right-click the image and copy the image address.

1. Open a new browser tab, paste the copied image address in the address bar, and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>. If it's been longer than a minute since you created the SAS, you should see an error message. If it's been less than a minute, the image should display. 

    >[!NOTE] 
    >You might need to refresh the page.

    ```xml
    <Error>
        <Code>AuthenticationFailed</Code>
        <Message>Server failed to authenticate the request. Make sure the value of Authorization header is formed correctly, including the signature.
        RequestId:03eda893-f01e-0028-2d73-c5c947000000
        Time:2021-01-07T16:02:55.3752851Z</Message>
        <AuthenticationErrorDetail>Signed expiry time [Tue, 07 Jan 2021 16:02:00 GMT] must be after signed start time [Tue, 07 Jan 2021 16:02:55 GMT]</AuthenticationErrorDetail>
    </Error>
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > To view this error message from some browsers, you may need to open a new browser window that won't have cached the image.

1. In Cloud Shell, quit the web app by selecting <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd>.
