Defender for Cloud offers security alerts that are powered by Microsoft Threat Intelligence. It also includes a range of advanced, intelligent protections for your workloads. The workload protections are provided through Microsoft Defender plans specific to the types of resources in your subscriptions. **For example**, you can enable Microsoft Defender for Storage to get alerted about suspicious activities related to your storage resources.

 **The Cloud workload dashboard includes the following sections:**

 -  **Microsoft Defender for Cloud coverage** \- Here you can see the resources types in your subscription that are eligible for protection by Defender for Cloud. Wherever relevant, you can upgrade here as well. If you want to upgrade all possible eligible resources, select **Upgrade all**.
 -  **Security alerts** \- When Defender for Cloud detects a threat in any area of your environment, it generates an alert. These alerts describe details of the affected resources, suggested remediation steps, and in some cases an option to **trigger a logic app** in response. Selecting anywhere in this graph opens the Security alerts page.
 -  **Advanced protection** \- Defender for Cloud includes many advanced threat protection capabilities for virtual machines, **Structured Query Language (SQL)** databases, containers, web applications, your network, and more. In this advanced protection section, you can see the status of the resources in your selected subscriptions for each of these protections. Select any of them to go directly to the configuration area for that protection type.
 -  **Insights** \- This rolling pane of news, suggested reading, and high priority alerts gives Defender for Cloud's insights into pressing security matters that are relevant to you and your subscription. Whether it's a list of high severity **Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs)** discovered on your VMs by a vulnerability analysis tool, or a new blog post by a member of the Defender for Cloud team, you'll find it here in the Insights panel.

:::image type="content" source="../media/workload-protections-dashboard-in-defender-for-cloud-74fcda82.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Workload protections in Defender for Cloud.":::
