learn-pr/azure/control-network-traffic-flow-with-routes/includes/3-exercise-create-custom-routes.md, before:

As you implement your security strategy, you want to control how network traffic is routed across your Azure infrastructure.

In the following exercise, you'll use a network virtual appliance (NVA) to help secure and monitor traffic. You'll want to ensure communication between front-end public servers and internal private servers is always routed through the appliance.

You'll configure the network so that all traffic flowing from a public subnet to a private subnet will be routed through the NVA. To make this flow happen, you'll create a custom route for the public subnet to route this traffic to a perimeter-network subnet. Later, you'll deploy an NVA to the perimeter-network subnet.

![Virtual network, subnets, and route table](../media/3-virtual-network-subnets-route-table.svg)

In this exercise, you'll create the route table, custom route, and subnets. You'll then associate the route table with a subnet.

## Create a route table and custom route

The first task is to create a new routing table and then add a custom route for all traffic intended for the private subnet.

1. In Azure Cloud Shell, run the following command to create a route table.

```azurecli
    az network route-table create \
        --name publictable \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --vhub-name \
        --disable-bgp-route-propagation false
```

1. Run the following command in Cloud Shell to create a custom route.

```azurecli
    az network route-table route create \
        --route-table-name publictable \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --name productionsubnet \
        --address-prefix 10.0.1.0/24 \
        --next-hop-type VirtualAppliance \
        --next-hop-ip-address 10.0.2.4
```

## Create a virtual network and subnets

The next task is to create the **vnet** virtual network and the three subnets that you need: **publicsubnet**, **privatesubnet**, and **dmzsubnet**.

1. Run the following command to create the **vnet** virtual network and the **publicsubnet** subnet.

```azurecli
    az network vnet create \
        --name vnet \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --address-prefix 10.0.0.0/16 \
        --subnet-name publicsubnet \
        --subnet-prefix 10.0.0.0/24
```

1. Run the following command in Cloud Shell to create the **privatesubnet** subnet.

```azurecli
    az network vnet subnet create \
        --name privatesubnet \
        --vnet-name vnet \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --address-prefix 10.0.1.0/24
```

1. Run the following command to create the **dmzsubnet** subnet.

```azurecli
    az network vnet subnet create \
        --name dmzsubnet \
        --vnet-name vnet \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --address-prefix 10.0.2.0/24
```

1. You should now have three subnets. Run the following command to show all of the subnets in the **vnet** virtual network.

```azurecli
    az network vnet subnet list \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --vnet-name vnet \
        --output table
```

## Associate the route table with the public subnet

The final task in this exercise is to associate the route table with the **publicsubnet** subnet.

Run the following command to associate the route table with the public subnet.

```azurecli
    az network vnet subnet update \
        --name publicsubnet \
        --vnet-name vnet \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --route-table publictable
```

Commit message:

added a note
Added a note about the warning on deprecated cmd

learn-pr/azure/control-network-traffic-flow-with-routes/includes/3-exercise-create-custom-routes.md, after:

As you implement your security strategy, you want to control how network traffic is routed across your Azure infrastructure.

In the following exercise, you'll use a network virtual appliance (NVA) to help secure and monitor traffic. You'll want to ensure communication between front-end public servers and internal private servers is always routed through the appliance.

You'll configure the network so that all traffic flowing from a public subnet to a private subnet will be routed through the NVA. To make this flow happen, you'll create a custom route for the public subnet to route this traffic to a perimeter-network subnet. Later, you'll deploy an NVA to the perimeter-network subnet.

![Virtual network, subnets, and route table](../media/3-virtual-network-subnets-route-table.svg)

In this exercise, you'll create the route table, custom route, and subnets. You'll then associate the route table with a subnet.

## Create a route table and custom route

The first task is to create a new routing table and then add a custom route for all traffic intended for the private subnet.

> [!NOTE] 
>  You may geet an error: This command is implicitly deprecated because command group 'network route-table' is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Use 'network vhub route-table' instead. Please ignore for this learning module. 

1. In Azure Cloud Shell, run the following command to create a route table.

```azurecli
    az network route-table create \
        --name publictable \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --vhub-name \
        --disable-bgp-route-propagation false
```

1. Run the following command in Cloud Shell to create a custom route.

```azurecli
    az network route-table route create \
        --route-table-name publictable \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --name productionsubnet \
        --address-prefix 10.0.1.0/24 \
        --next-hop-type VirtualAppliance \
        --next-hop-ip-address 10.0.2.4
```

## Create a virtual network and subnets

The next task is to create the **vnet** virtual network and the three subnets that you need: **publicsubnet**, **privatesubnet**, and **dmzsubnet**.

1. Run the following command to create the **vnet** virtual network and the **publicsubnet** subnet.

```azurecli
    az network vnet create \
        --name vnet \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --address-prefix 10.0.0.0/16 \
        --subnet-name publicsubnet \
        --subnet-prefix 10.0.0.0/24
```

1. Run the following command in Cloud Shell to create the **privatesubnet** subnet.

```azurecli
    az network vnet subnet create \
        --name privatesubnet \
        --vnet-name vnet \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --address-prefix 10.0.1.0/24
```

1. Run the following command to create the **dmzsubnet** subnet.

```azurecli
    az network vnet subnet create \
        --name dmzsubnet \
        --vnet-name vnet \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --address-prefix 10.0.2.0/24
```

1. You should now have three subnets. Run the following command to show all of the subnets in the **vnet** virtual network.

```azurecli
    az network vnet subnet list \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --vnet-name vnet \
        --output table
```

## Associate the route table with the public subnet

The final task in this exercise is to associate the route table with the **publicsubnet** subnet.

Run the following command to associate the route table with the public subnet.

```azurecli
    az network vnet subnet update \
        --name publicsubnet \
        --vnet-name vnet \
        --resource-group <rgn>[sandbox resource group name]</rgn> \
        --route-table publictable
```
