Beyond its built-in high availability, the Azure platform offers two options for providing higher levels of availability for VM and some PaaS workloads. Availability Zones and Availability Sets protect your workloads from planned maintenance activity and potential hardware failures.

## Availability Zones

Availability Zones are unique physical locations within a region. Each zone is made up of one or more datacenters equipped with independent power, cooling, and networking. Within Azure regions that support Availability Zones, you can specify in which zone you want the virtual machine to reside when you choose to use Available Zones during VM creation. There are three Availability Zones within each supported Azure region. Availability Zones provide high availability against datacenter failures when you deploy multiple VMs into different zones. In addition, they also provide a means for Microsoft to perform maintenance (using a grouping called an update domain) within each region by only updating one zone at any given time. You can spread out your virtual machine ecosystem across three zones in the region. Utilizing Availability Zones in conjunction with your Azure virtual machines raises your uptime to four nines (99.99%) which equates to a maximum of 52.60 minutes of downtime per year. You can identify which Azure regions support Availability Zones at [docs.microsoft.com](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/availability-zones/az-overview). If Availability Zones are available in your region, and your application can support the minimal cross-zone latency, Availability Zones will provide the highest level of availability for your application.

:::image type="content" source="../media/module-22-plan-implement-final-03.png" alt-text="Azure Availability Zones":::

In the image above, you can see the availability zone configuration. When you deploy a VM into a region with an availability zone you will be presented with the option to deploy in Zone 1, 2, and 3. These zones are logical representations of physical datacenters, which means a deployment to Zone 1 in one subscription, does not mean that Zone 1 represents the same datacenter in another subscription.

## Availability Sets

Availability sets are similar to Availability Zones, except instead of spreading workloads across datacenters in a region, they spread workloads across servers and racks in a datacenter. Since nearly all workloads in Azure are virtual, you can use availability sets in order to guarantee that the two VMs containing your Always On Availability Group members are not running on the same physical host. Availability sets can provide up to 99.95% availability, and should be used when Availability Zones are unavailable in a region, or an application cannot tolerate intra-zone latency.
