SQL Server provides two major options for high availability: Always On availability groups and Failover Cluster Instances. In addition, using availability groups for your Virtual Machines also provides the option to allow for disaster recovery.

## Always On availability groups (AG)

Always On availability groups can be implemented between two or more (up to a maximum of nine) SQL Server instances running on Azure virtual machines or across an on-premises data center and Azure. In an availability group, database transactions are committed to the primary replica, and then the transactions are sent either synchronously or asynchronously to all secondary replicas. The physical distance between the servers (that is, whether or not they are in the same Azure region) dictates which availability mode you should choose. Generally, if the workload requires the lowest possible latency or the secondary replicas are geographically spread apart, asynchronous availability mode is recommended. If the replicas are within the same Azure region and the applications can withstand some level of latency, synchronous commit mode should be considered. Synchronous mode will help to ensure that each transaction is committed to one or more secondaries before allowing the application to continue. Always On availability groups provide both high availability and disaster recovery, because a single availability group can support both synchronous and asynchronous availability modes. The unit of failover for an availability group is a group of databases, and not the entire instance.

## SQL Server Failover Cluster instances

If you need to protect the entire instance, you could use a SQL Server Failover Cluster Instance (FCI), which provides high availability for an entire instance, in a single region. A FCI doesn't provide disaster recovery without being combined with another feature like availability groups or log shipping. FCIs also require shared storage that can be provided on Azure by using shared file storage or using Storage Spaces Direct on Windows Server.

For Azure workloads, availability groups are the preferred solution for newer deployments, because the shared storage require of FCIs increases the complexity of deployments. However, for migrations from on-premises solutions, an FCI may be required for application support.
