learn-pr/ai-business-school/introduction-to-ai-technology/includes/4-microsoft-ai-approach.md, before:

Watch this video from David Carmona, General Manager of AI Marketing, to hear how Microsoft is turning the latest advances in AI into tools, products, and services that can be leveraged by organizations to implement an AI strategy.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE2Y9Oi]

David Carmona explains that there are three things you can do to bring AI to your company: create intelligent applications, optimize business processes, and empower your employees through AI.

Every organization can leverage pre-built AI services to help bring more knowledge to each employee. Organizations can also leverage a conversational AI platform with pre-built AI services to power digital agents and bring knowledge to customers. When optimizing business processes with AI, you can use packaged source solutions or create a custom AI solution. When looking to bring AI to every employee, you need to understand both how employees consume AI, and how new AI models have the potential to turn all employees into citizen data scientists.

Now that you’ve learned how to bring AI to every employee, let’s dive more in to machine learning.

Commit message:

These are updates to learn module experiment

learn-pr/ai-business-school/introduction-to-ai-technology/includes/4-microsoft-ai-approach.md, after:


**Pre-Built AI: Cognitive Services**


![Prebuilt-AI](..\images\4-microsoft-ai-approach-1.png)


When thinking of adopting AI into your business, you should consider Pre-built AI services first. These are already pre-trained models and tested by data scientists to solve common functions. Microsoft's Pre-built AI service are called Cognitive Services. These are services that have been developed by Microsoft global researchers and data scientists.  To achieve quality and accelerate delivery of business solutions, there is no need for developers and businesses to try to reinvent the wheel.  It is better to leverage the cognitive services in vision, speech, language, search or decision-making that solves the business problem.  This brings AI within reach of every developer and business without requiring machine learning expertise.  As a result, it enables developers of all skill levels to build intelligent apps by easily adding AI capabilities.

**Cognitive Service real world examples**

![Prebuilt-AI](..\images\4-microsoft-ai-approach-2.png)


Infusing cognitive services into existing and new business applications makes them smarter, intuitive, and customized to provide better user experience. For example are some business scenarios: 
* Facial Recognition
> Rideshare companies can use the Face  service to enhance the security of riders with selfies. They can periodically prompt drivers to take a selfie before they accept ride requests. This helps ensure in real-time if person behind the wheel matches the same person the company screened and approved in their profile account.

* Recommendation
> E-commerce or entertainment industries can improve user engagements by using Personalizer service to understand your customers' preferences and making better recommendations to them. For gaming apps, the possible user options might be: "play a game", "watch a movie", or "join a clan". Based on that user's history and other contextual information (e.g. user location, time of day, device type, or day of
the week) the Personalizer service helps business suggest the best option to promote or recommend to the user. 

* Conversational Language
> Finally, businesses can use the Language Understanding service to create conversational bots or digital agents that allows users to interact with the bot applications using natural language understanding.  This custom natural language understanding service helps streamline work processes and integrate with existing data to provide better customer service at scale to build brand loyalty and a competitive advantage for business.


Now that you’ve learned how to bring Prebuilt AI to every business, let’s dive more in to machine learning.
