You can reduce the chances of a significant security event by configuring a security policy and then implementing the recommendations provided by Azure Security

Security Center automatically runs continuous scans to analyze the security state of your Azure resources. When Security Center identifies potential security vulnerabilities, it creates recommendations that guide you through the process of configuring the needed security controls. Security Center updates its recommendations within 24 hours, with the following exceptions:

 -  Operating system security configuration recommendations are updated within 48 hours
 -  Endpoint Protection issues recommendations are updated within 8 hours
 -  Recommendations are grouped by Severity

Each recommendation provides you with:

 -  A short description of what is being recommended.
 -  The remediation steps to carry out in order to implement the recommendation.
 -  Which resources are in need of you performing the recommended action on them.
 -  The **Secure Score impact**, which is the amount that your Secure Score will go up if you implement this recommendation.

### Monitor recommendations

Security Center analyzes the security state of your resources to identify potential vulnerabilities. The Recommendations tile under Overview shows the total number of recommendations identified by Security Center.

:::image type="content" source="../media/az500-security-center-recommendations-c252bd9c.png" alt-text="Microsoft Defender for Cloud recommendations blade is displayed.":::


Recommendations can be filtered. The Filter blade opens and you select the severity and state values you wish to display.

 -  **RECOMMENDATIONS**: The recommendation.
 -  **SECURE SCORE IMPACT**: A score generated by Security Center using your security recommendations, and applying advanced algorithms to determine how crucial each recommendation is.
 -  **RESOURCE**: Lists the resources to which this recommendation applies.
 -  **STATUS BARS**: Describes the severity of that particular recommendation:
    
     -  **High (Red)**: A vulnerability exists with a meaningful resource (such as an application, a VM, or a network security group) and requires attention.
     -  **Medium (Orange)**: A vulnerability exists and non-critical or additional steps are required to eliminate it or to complete a process.
     -  **Low (Blue)**: A vulnerability exists that should be addressed but does not require immediate attention. (By default, low recommendations aren't presented, but you can filter on low recommendations if you want to view them.)
     -  **Healthy (Green)**:
     -  **Not Available (Grey)**:

### List of areas of ASC recommendations

1.  Network recommendations
2.  Container recommendations
3.  App Service recommendations
4.  Compute and app recommendations
5.  Virtual machine scale set recommendations
6.  Data and storage recommendations
7.  Identity and access recommendations
