
Until recently, managing an organization’s technological infrastructure and PCs required IT professionals to do lots of hands-on, manual, and time-consuming tasks. New device form factors, new approaches in Windows client management, advancements in cloud technology, and bring-your-own-device (BYOD) trends have made modern endpoint management more interesting for many organizations - not only for mobile devices but also PCs.

Modern endpoint management is a novel approach to managing Windows, similar to managing mobile devices using Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) solutions. This approach allows you to simplify deployment and management, improve security, provide better end-user experiences, and lower costs for your Windows devices. With modern endpoint management, you can now manage devices of all kinds, desktop PCs, HoloLens, Surface Hubs, company-owned devices, employee-owned devices, and even mobile devices running iOS or Android, all while using one management platform. Let’s examine why you should implement a modern endpoint management approach for Windows devices within your organization.
## The pillars of modern management
- Easy to deploy and manage. While powerful, traditional operating system deployment (OSD) is typically complex and time-consuming. There's now a more straightforward way to provision new Windows devices. Windows Autopilot, deeply integrated with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) and Intune, simplifies and personalizes the out-of-the-box (OOBE) user experience. Windows Autopilot joins the device to Azure AD and enrolls it in Intune. Intune automatically applies users’ email, apps, files, preferences, and organization’s security settings without creating custom OS images.
- Always up to date. Keeping up with emerging security threats and increasing user productivity requires changing how often Windows and Microsoft 365 apps need to be updated. With aligned updates, powerful insights driven by cloud intelligence, and a modern endpoint management approach with Enterprise Mobility + Security (EMS), there's now a better way to keep devices up to date without the complexity of maintaining an on-premises infrastructure.
- Intelligent security, built in. Attackers are becoming more sophisticated, so Microsoft 365 was designed with security in mind. Microsoft built many new and growing security features directly into the Microsoft 365 platform, including Windows Hello, Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (ATP), Windows Information Protection, Azure AD Identity Protection, Conditional Access, and more. This security features powered by Microsoft Intelligent Security Graph use billions of signals and constantly improve machine-learning algorithms. Intelligent Security Graph provides human expertise to help you protect your company data and respond to sophisticated attacks.
- Proactive insights. With rich telemetry and cloud intelligence, you can proactively discover device and app issues before they affect end users. You can be more confident when applying OS updates, finding security issues, and more. The fusion between machine intelligence and human expertise can create a unique and powerful partnership.

