Add new users or delete existing users from your Azure Active Directory (**Azure AD**) tenant. To **add** or **delete** users, you must be a **User Administrator** or **Global Administrator**.

> [!NOTE]
> For information about **viewing** or **deleting** personal data, please review Microsoft's guidance on the Windows data subject requests for the **General Data Protection Regulation** (**GDPR**) site. For general information about GDPR, see the **GDPR section** of **the Microsoft Trust Center** and the **GDPR section of the Service Trust portal**.

## Add a new user

You can create a new user for your organization or invite an external user from the same starting point.

1.  Sign in to the **Azure portal** in the User Administrator role.
2.  Navigate to **Azure Active Directory** &gt; **Users**.
3.  Select either **Create new user** or **Invite external user** from the menu.
    
    :::image type="content" source="../media/azure-active-directory-users-page-new-user-e07c9173.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing an example of the Azure Active Directory Users page for creating a new user.":::
    
4.  On the **New User** page, provide the new user's information:
    
    
     -  **Identity**: Add a user name and display name for the user. **User name** and **Name** are required and can't contain accent characters. You can also add a first and last name.
        
        The domain part of the user name must use either the initial default domain name, **&lt;yourdomainname&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**, or a custom domain name, such as **contoso.com**.
     -  **Groups and roles**: Optional. Add the user to one or more existing groups. Group membership can be set at any time.
     -  **Settings**: Optional. Toggle the option to block sign-in for the user or set the user's default location.
     -  **Job info**: Optional. Add the user's job title, department, company name, and manager. These details can be updated at any time.
5.  Copy the autogenerated password provided in the **Password** box. You'll need to give this password to the user to sign in for the first time.
6.  Select **Create**.

The user is created and added to your Azure AD organization.

## Add a new guest user

You can also invite the new guest user to collaborate with your organization by selecting **Invite user** from the **New user** page. If your organization's external collaboration settings are configured to allow guests, the user will be emailed an invitation they must accept in order to begin collaborating.

## Add other users

There might be scenarios where you want to manually create consumer accounts in your Azure Active Directory B2C (**Azure AD B2C**) directory. If you have an environment with Azure Active Directory (**cloud**) and Windows Server Active Directory (**on-premises**), you can add new users by syncing the existing user account data.

## Delete a user

You can delete an existing user using the Azure Active Directory portal.

 -  You must have a Global Administrator, Privileged Authentication Administrator, or User Administrator role assignment to delete users in your organization.
 -  Global Admins and Privileged Authentication Admins can delete any users, including other admins.
 -  User Administrators can delete any non-admin users, Helpdesk Administrators, and other User Administrators.

1.  Sign in to the **Azure portal** using one of the appropriate roles listed above.
2.  Go to **Azure Active Directory** &gt; **Users**.
3.  Search for and select the user you want to delete from your Azure AD tenant.
4.  Select **Delete user**.

The user is deleted and no longer appears on the **Users** \- **All users** page. The user can be seen on the **Deleted users** page for the next **30 days** and can be restored during that time.

When a user is deleted, any licenses consumed by the user are made available for other users.

> [!NOTE]
> To update the identity, contact information, or job information for users whose source of authority is Windows Server Active Directory, you must use Windows Server Active Directory. After you complete the update, you must wait for the next synchronization cycle to complete before you see the changes.
