B2B collaboration is a capability of Microsoft Entra External ID that lets you collaborate with users and partners outside of your organization. With B2B collaboration, an external user is invited to sign in to your Microsoft Entra organization using their own credentials. This B2B collaboration user can then access the apps and resources you want to share with them. A user object is created for the B2B collaboration user in the same directory as your employees. B2B collaboration user objects have limited privileges in your directory by default, and they can be managed like employees, added to groups, and so on. This article discusses the properties of this user object and ways to manage it.

The following table describes B2B collaboration users based on how they authenticate (internally or externally) and their relationship to your organization (guest or member).

:::image type="content" source="../media/microsoft-entra-b2b-collaboration-properties-a1bd2ecc.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot of table showing properties of a Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration user.":::


 -  **External guest**: Most users who are commonly considered external users or guests fall into this category. This B2B collaboration user has an account in an external Microsoft Entra organization or an external identity provider (such as a social identity), and they have guest-level permissions in the resource organization. The user object created in the resource Microsoft Entra directory has a UserType of Guest.
 -  **External member**: This B2B collaboration user has an account in an external Microsoft Entra organization or an external identity provider (such as a social identity) and member-level access to resources in your organization. This scenario is common in organizations consisting of multiple tenants, where users are considered part of the larger organization and need member-level access to resources in the organization’s other tenants. The user object created in the resource Microsoft Entra directory has a UserType of Member.
 -  **Internal guest**: Before Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration was available, it was common to collaborate with distributors, suppliers, vendors, and others by setting up internal credentials for them and designating them as guests by setting the user object UserType to Guest. If you have internal guest users like these, you can invite them to use B2B collaboration instead so they can use their own credentials, allowing their external identity provider to manage authentication and their account lifecycle.
 -  **Internal member**: These users are generally considered employees of your organization. The user authenticates internally via Microsoft Entra ID, and the user object created in the resource Microsoft Entra directory has a UserType of Member.
