learn-pr/wwl-data-ai/get-started-ai-fundamentals/includes/5-understand-natural-language-process.md, before:

Natural language processing (NLP) is the area of AI that deals with creating software that understands written and spoken language.

NLP enables you to create software that can:

- Analyze and interpret text in documents, email messages, and other sources.
- Interpret spoken language, and synthesize speech responses.
- Automatically translate spoken or written phrases between languages.
- Interpret commands and determine appropriate actions.

For example, *Starship Commander*, is a virtual reality (VR) game from Human Interact, that takes place in a science fiction world. The game uses natural language processing to enable players to control the narrative and interact with in-game characters and starship systems.

Watch the following video to learn more.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4vyDj]

## Natural language processing in Microsoft Azure

In Microsoft Azure, you can use the following cognitive services to build natural language processing solutions:

| Service | Capabilities |
| ------- | ------------ |
| **Language** | Use this service to access features for understanding and analyzing text, training language models that can understand spoken or text-based commands, and building intelligent applications. |
| **Translator** | Use this service to translate text between more than 60 languages.|
| **Speech** | Use this service to recognize and synthesize speech, and to translate spoken languages.|

## Try this

To see an example of a how you can use natural language to interact with an AI system, follow these steps:

1. Open another browser tab and go to https://aidemos.microsoft.com/luis/demo.
2. Use the demo interface to control the lighting in the virtual home. You can type instructions, use the microphone button to speak commands, or select any of the suggested phrases to see how the system responds.

Commit message:

changed files by pdets auto publish service, publishid[0600e534-15a9-4897-94fb-9d9d51adbeb2] and do [publish].

learn-pr/wwl-data-ai/get-started-ai-fundamentals/includes/5-understand-natural-language-process.md, after:

Natural language processing (NLP) is the area of AI that deals with creating software that understands written and spoken language.

NLP enables you to create software that can:

- Analyze and interpret text in documents, email messages, and other sources.
- Interpret spoken language, and synthesize speech responses.
- Automatically translate spoken or written phrases between languages.
- Interpret commands and determine appropriate actions.

For example, *Starship Commander*, is a virtual reality (VR) game from Human Interact, that takes place in a science fiction world. The game uses natural language processing to enable players to control the narrative and interact with in-game characters and starship systems.

Watch the following video to learn more.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4vyDj]

## Natural language processing in Microsoft Azure

In Microsoft Azure, you can use the following cognitive services to build natural language processing solutions:

| Service | Capabilities |
| ------- | ------------ |
| **Language** | Use this service to access features for understanding and analyzing text, training language models that can understand spoken or text-based commands, and building intelligent applications. |
| **Translator** | Use this service to translate text between more than 60 languages.|
| **Speech** | Use this service to recognize and synthesize speech, and to translate spoken languages.|
| **Azure Bot** | This service provides a platform for conversational AI, the capability of a software "agent" to participate in a conversation. Developers can use the *Bot Framework* to create a bot and manage it with Azure Bot Service - integrating back-end services like Language, and connecting to channels for web chat, email, Microsoft Teams, and others.|

## Try this

To see an example of a how you can use natural language to interact with an AI system, follow these steps:

1. Open another browser tab and go to https://aidemos.microsoft.com/luis/demo.
2. Use the demo interface to control the lighting in the virtual home. You can type instructions, use the microphone button to speak commands, or select any of the suggested phrases to see how the system responds.
