learn-pr/student-evangelism/deploy-prebuilt-module-edge-device/includes/6-exercise-deploying-prebuilt-module.md, before:

To deploy the "Simulated Temperature Sensor" module from the Azure Marketplace, use the following steps:

1. In the Azure portal, enter **Simulated Temperature Sensor** into the search and open the **Marketplace** result.

1. Choose an IoT Edge device to receive this module. On the "Target Devices for IoT Edge Module" page, provide the following information:
    * **Subscription:** Select the subscription containing the IoT hub you're using
    * **IoT Hub:** Select the name of the IoT hub you're using
    * **IoT Edge Device Name:** As selected before  

1. Select **Create**.

1. Using the three-step wizard, define precisely how to deploy the module.
    * **Add Modules**: The *Simulated Temperature Sensor* module should be autopopulated.
    * **Specify Routes**: Define how messages are passed between modules and to IoT Hub. If this setting isn't autopopulated to `$upstream`, add the following code:

    ```JSON
    {
      "routes": {
        "route": "FROM /messages/* INTO $upstream"
      }
    }
    ```

    * **Review Deployment:** preview the deployment manifest JSON file that defines all the modules deployed to your IoT Edge device. Ensure it includes the "Simulated Temperature Sensor" module.  

1. Select your device from the list of IoT Edge devices to see its details.
    * On the device details page, scroll down to the Modules section.
    * Three modules should be listed: `$edgeAgent`, `$edgeHub`, and `SimulatedTemperatureSensor`. The list should look similar to the screenshot below.

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > If a **module is listed as "in deployment"** but not reported by the device, your IoT Edge device is still starting it. **Wait a few moments and click "Refresh"** at the top of the page.

    ![Deployed modules at the edge.](../media/deployed-modules.png)

1. Open the command prompt on your IoT Edge device, or use the SSH connection from Azure CLI.
1. Confirm that the module deployed from the cloud is running on your IoT Edge device using the `sudo iotedge list` command.
1. View the messages being sent from the temperature sensor module using the command `sudo iotedge logs SimulatedTemperatureSensor -f`. 

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > Note that IoT Edge commands are case-sensitive when referring to module names.

1. Clean up resources

Commit message:

Update Azure Marketplace module references

learn-pr/student-evangelism/deploy-prebuilt-module-edge-device/includes/6-exercise-deploying-prebuilt-module.md, after:

To deploy the "Simulated Temperature Sensor" module from the Microsoft Artifact Registry, use the following steps:

1. Find the **Simulated Temperature Sensor** module in the [Microsoft Artifact Registry](https://mcr.microsoft.com/catalog?cat=IoT%20Edge%20Modules&alphaSort=asc&alphaSortKey=Name) filtered by *IoT Edge Modules*.

1. Select the latest image version of the **Simulated Temperature Sensor** module.

1. Copy the URI for the **Simulated Temperature Sensor** module. You only need the URI for the module. Don't include the *docker pull* command. For example, `mcr.microsoft.com/azureiotedge-simulated-temperature-sensor:latest`.

1. In the Azure portal, go to your IoT Hub and select the device to add the **Simulated Temperature Sensor** module.

1. Select **Set modules** from the IoT Edge device details page.

1. In the **IoT Edge modules** section, select **Add** then choose **IoT Edge Module**.

1. Update the following module settings:

    | Setting            | Value                                                                |
    |--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
    | IoT Module name    | `SimulatedTemperatureSensor`                                         |
    | Image URI          | `mcr.microsoft.com/azureiotedge-simulated-temperature-sensor:latest` |
    | Restart policy     | always                                                               |
    | Desired status     | running                                                              |

1. Select **Routes** to define how messages are passed between modules and to IoT Hub.

1. Add a route that sends all messages from the simulated temperature module to IoT Hub.

    | Setting                          | Value                                      |
    |----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
    | Name                             | `SimulatedTemperatureSensorToIoTHub`       |
    | Value                            | `FROM /messages/modules/SimulatedTemperatureSensor/* INTO $upstream` |

1. Select **Review + create** to preview the deployment manifest JSON file that defines all the modules deployed to your IoT Edge device. Ensure it includes the *Simulated Temperature Sensor* module.

1. On the device details page, find the *Modules* section. Three modules should be listed: `$edgeAgent`, `$edgeHub`, and `SimulatedTemperatureSensor`. The list should look similar to the screenshot below.

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > If a **module is listed as "in deployment"** but not reported by the device, your IoT Edge device is still starting it. **Wait a few moments and click "Refresh"** at the top of the page.

    ![Deployed modules at the edge.](../media/deployed-modules.png)

1. Open the command prompt on your IoT Edge device, or use the SSH connection from Azure CLI.
1. Confirm that the module deployed from the cloud is running on your IoT Edge device using the `sudo iotedge list` command.
1. View the messages being sent from the temperature sensor module using the command `sudo iotedge logs SimulatedTemperatureSensor -f`. 

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > Note that IoT Edge commands are case-sensitive when referring to module names.

1. Clean up resources
