learn-pr/entra-external-identities/includes/6-add-an-admin-account.md, before:

## Exercise - Add an admin account

In Microsoft Entra External ID, an external tenant represents your directory of consumer and guest accounts. With an administrator role, work and guest accounts can [manage the tenant](/entra/external-id/customers/quickstart-tenant-setup).

::: zone pivot="microsoft-entra-admin-center"

1. To add an admin account, sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com/) with at least Privileged Role Administrator permissions and browse to **Identity** > **Users** > **All users**. Then, select **New user** > **Create new user**.
    ![alt text](../media/add-an-admin-account/1.png)
1. On the **Create new user** page, enter the following information:
    - Under **Basics**, enter information for this admin: 
        1. **User principal name** (Required) - The user name of the new user. For example, emily@woodgrovelive.com. 
        1. **Display name** - The name of the new user. For example, Emily Doe.
    -  Under **Password**, copy the autogenerated password provided in the **password box**. You'll need to give this password to the admin to sign in for the first time.
    ![alt text](../media/add-an-admin-account/2.png)
1. Under **Properties**, you can also enter a **First name** and **Last name** along with some other properties.
    ![alt text](../media/add-an-admin-account/3.png)
1. To add administrative permissions for the user, add them to one or more of the administrator roles in Microsoft Entra ID. Under **Assignments**, select **Add role**. Then, find the role you want to assign to this user, and choose **Select**. 
    ![alt text](../media/add-an-admin-account/4.png)
1. To create the account, select **Create**.
    ![alt text](../media/add-an-admin-account/5.png)
    ***Well done!** The admin is created and added to your customer tenant. It's preferable to have at least one admin account native to your customer tenant assigned the Global Administrator role. This account can be considered a break-glass account or emergency access account.*

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="microsoft-graph-api"

#### 1\. Create a user

To [create a user](/graph/api/user-post-users?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http), replace the following values in the Microsoft Graph request:

- **displayName** with the user display name.
- **mailNickname** with a mail alias for the user. This property must be specified when a user is created.
- **userPrincipalName** with the principal name (UPN) of the user. The general format is alias@domain, where the domain must be present in the tenant's collection of verified domains.
- **password** with a temporary password that you will share with the user. During the first sign-in, the user will be asked to change their password.

##### Example

The following example shows how to create a new user account for Adele Vance.

```json
POST https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/applications
{
    "accountEnabled": true,
    "displayName": "Adele Vance",
    "mailNickname": "AdeleV",
    "userPrincipalName": "AdeleV@wggdemo.onmicrosoft.com",
    "passwordProfile": {
        "forceChangePasswordNextSignIn": true,
        "password": "A1bC2dE3fH4iJ5kL6mN7oP8qR9sT0u"
    }
}
```

##### 1.1 Copy the user ID

From the response, copy the value of the **id**. For example:

```json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/$metadata#users/$entity",
    "id": "00aa00aa-bb11-cc22-dd33-44ee44ee44ee",
    ...
}        
```

#### 2\. Assign an admin role

After the new user is created, [create a (unified) role assignment](/graph/api/rbacapplication-post-roleassignments). In the following Microsoft Graph request, replace the:

- **{user-id}** with the user **id** from the previous step.
- **{role-id}** with one of the [Microsoft Entra built-in roles](/entra/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference).

```json
POST https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/roleManagement/directory/roleAssignments
{
    "principalId": "{user-id}",
    "roleDefinitionId": "{role-id}",
    "directoryScopeId": "/"
}
```

##### Example

The following example assigns the **Security Administrator** role to Adele Vance

```json
POST https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/roleManagement/directory/roleAssignments
{
    "principalId": "00aa00aa-bb11-cc22-dd33-44ee44ee44ee",
    "roleDefinitionId": "194ae4cb-b126-40b2-bd5b-6091b380977d",
    "directoryScopeId": "/"
}
```

::: zone-end

Commit message:

adding alt text to all screenshots and addressing a few acrolinx errors

learn-pr/entra-external-identities/includes/6-add-an-admin-account.md, after:

## Exercise - Add an admin account

In Microsoft Entra External ID, an external tenant represents your directory of consumer and guest accounts. With an administrator role, work and guest accounts can [manage the tenant](/entra/external-id/customers/quickstart-tenant-setup).

::: zone pivot="microsoft-entra-admin-center"

1. To add an admin account, sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com/) with at least Privileged Role Administrator permissions and browse to **Identity** > **Users** > **All users**. Then, select **New user** > **Create new user**.
    ![Screenshot of Users blade with a button titled New user highlighted and one of the dropdown menu options Create new user that lets you create a new internal user in your organization highlighted.](../media/add-an-admin-account/1.png)
1. On the **Create new user** page, enter the following information:
    - Under **Basics**, enter information for this admin: 
        1. **User principal name** (Required) - The user name of the new user. For example, emily@woodgrovelive.com. 
        1. **Display name** - The name of the new user. For example, Emily Doe.
    -  Under **Password**, copy the autogenerated password provided in the **password box**. You'll need to give this password to the admin to sign in for the first time.
    ![Screenshot of Create new user blade where required fields User principal name, Mail nickname, Display name, and Password are populated.](../media/add-an-admin-account/2.png)
1. Under **Properties**, you can also enter a **First name** and **Last name** along with some other properties.
    ![Screenshot of Create new user blade where one of the tabs titled "Properties" in the wizard navigation is selected. It shows properties like first name, last name, and other information that can be filled out about the user.](../media/add-an-admin-account/3.png)
1. To add administrative permissions for the user, add them to one or more of the administrator roles in Microsoft Entra ID. Under **Assignments**, select **Add role**. Then, find the role you want to assign to this user, and choose **Select**.
    ![Screenshot of Create new user blade where the next tab in the wizard navigation titled Assignments is selected. It shows a button titled Add role highlighted. In the Directory roles pane open to the right, Security administrator role is highlighted.](../media/add-an-admin-account/4.png)
1. To create the account, select **Create**.
    ![Screenshot of Create new user blade where the final tab in the wizard navigation titled Review and create is selected. It shows an overview of configured and assigned Basics, Properties, and Assignments for this user.](../media/add-an-admin-account/5.png)
    ***Well done!** The admin is created and added to your customer tenant. It's preferable to have at least one admin account native to your customer tenant assigned the Global Administrator role. This account can be considered a break-glass account or emergency access account.*

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="microsoft-graph-api"

#### 1\. Create a user

To [create a user](/graph/api/user-post-users?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http), replace the following values in the Microsoft Graph request:

- **displayName** with the user display name.
- **mailNickname** with a mail alias for the user. This property must be specified when a user is created.
- **userPrincipalName** with the principal name (UPN) of the user. The general format is alias@domain, where the domain must be present in the tenant's collection of verified domains.
- **password** with a temporary password that you will share with the user. During the first sign-in, the user will be asked to change their password.

##### Example

The following example shows how to create a new user account for Adele Vance.

```json
POST https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/applications
{
    "accountEnabled": true,
    "displayName": "Adele Vance",
    "mailNickname": "AdeleV",
    "userPrincipalName": "AdeleV@wggdemo.onmicrosoft.com",
    "passwordProfile": {
        "forceChangePasswordNextSignIn": true,
        "password": "A1bC2dE3fH4iJ5kL6mN7oP8qR9sT0u"
    }
}
```

##### 1.1 Copy the user ID

From the response, copy the value of the **id**. For example:

```json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/$metadata#users/$entity",
    "id": "00aa00aa-bb11-cc22-dd33-44ee44ee44ee",
    ...
}        
```

#### 2\. Assign an admin role

After the new user is created, [create a (unified) role assignment](/graph/api/rbacapplication-post-roleassignments). In the following Microsoft Graph request, replace the:

- **{user-id}** with the user **id** from the previous step.
- **{role-id}** with one of the [Microsoft Entra built-in roles](/entra/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference).

```json
POST https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/roleManagement/directory/roleAssignments
{
    "principalId": "{user-id}",
    "roleDefinitionId": "{role-id}",
    "directoryScopeId": "/"
}
```

##### Example

The following example assigns the **Security Administrator** role to Adele Vance

```json
POST https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/roleManagement/directory/roleAssignments
{
    "principalId": "00aa00aa-bb11-cc22-dd33-44ee44ee44ee",
    "roleDefinitionId": "194ae4cb-b126-40b2-bd5b-6091b380977d",
    "directoryScopeId": "/"
}
```

::: zone-end
