This module walks you through setting up an automatic data flow from a simulated IoT device into Azure Digital Twins. Then, you combine this data with business logic to update additional digital twin properties, keeping your twin graph up-to-date with your simulated environment.

Imagine you're a developer working to digitally represent a smart building. The building contains many rooms and each room is equipped with a smart thermostat, capable of sending temperature readings to the cloud. You've created models and twins for the scenario in Azure Digital Twins, and now you need to set up the data flow to capture incoming thermostat readings and keep the graph synchronized to the state of your building. This will complete your digital twin representation, which can then be used to support queries and dashboards that building managers can use to monitor temperatures across the building at a glance.

In this module, you'll identify and set up Azure resources that can carry messages from a simulated device into Azure Digital Twins, including IoT Hub and an Azure function. You'll run the simulated device and test out the data flow. Then you'll add on to the data flow, using Event Grid and another Azure function to propagate device messages from one twin to another in the Azure Digital Twins graph. You'll run the simulated device again and query Azure Digital Twins to test the full data flow.

After completing this module, you'll be able to identify which Azure services are used to send IoT data to Azure Digital Twins, and describe how data flows from an IoT device through these services into the twin graph. You'll also be familiar with the code elements of the Azure functions that ingest device data and propagate it through Azure Digital Twins.
