Semantic search augments standard keyword search with semantic similarity. This means a query for "sunny" could match the text "bright natural light" even though there is no lexical overlap longer than one letter. Instead of character similarity, semantic search uses embedding vectors produced by artificial intelligence (AI) to measure query and document similarity. This provides more relevant search results.

This learning path shows how to enable semantic search in Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server, and use Azure OpenAI to generate vector embeddings.

DIAGRAM:

- An Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server
- The `pgvector` and `azure_ai` extension icons
- The Azure OpenAI Embeddings API
- Documents + queries going through the Embeddings API to become vectors
- Arrow showing semantic search between the query vector and the document vectors

## Example scenario

Suppose you work at a company that manages vacation property listings. You want to let customers search & book listings online. One challenge is the many different words people use to describe the same things. You have limited resources to develop & maintain keyword lists as descriptions change and properties come and go, and manual keyword entry is error-prone. You want to provide relevant search results without manual keyword lists.

## What will we be doing?
We'll get an overview of semantic search, embeddings, and vector databases. Then we'll enable the `pgvector` and `azure_ai` extensions. With these, we'll execute semantic search over vector columns generated from Azure OpenAI embeddings using the `azure_ai` extension. Lastly, we'll write a search function that receives a query string, generates embeddings for that query, and executes semantic search against the database.

## What is the main goal?
By the end of this session, we'll be able to execute semantic searches using Azure Database for PostgreSQL Flexible Server against vector embeddings generated by Azure OpenAI.
