### What is Azure Hybrid Benefit?

*Azure Hybrid Benefit* is an Azure offer that helps organizations reduce expenses during and after their migration to the cloud environment. It does this by enabling commercial customers to allocate their qualifying on-premises licenses to get equivalent Azure services at a reduced cost. By providing discounts on licenses and subscriptions, it allows organizations to allocate their savings towards strategic innovations like adoption of AI. Azure Hybrid Benefit is available for organizations that have Windows Server or SQL Server with active Software Assurance or RedHat and SUSE Linux active subscriptions.

> [!NOTE]
> Software Assurance is a commercial licensing program Software Assurance is only available through Volume Licensing agreements. You can purchase it when you buy or renew a Volume Licensing agreement. It's included with some agreements and is an optional purchase with others. Software Assurance benefits include new product version rights, support, license mobility rights, and a unique set of technologies and services to maximize your IT investments. For more information, refer to [*Software Assurance*](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/licensing-programs/software-assurance-default?oneroute=true).

Azure Hybrid Benefit makes the transition to the cloud more affordable. It also acts as a catalyst for organizations to embrace migration and modernization at a faster pace. With Azure Hybrid Benefit, organizations can achieve greater flexibility and financial efficiency. This strategic pricing empowers businesses to innovate and stay competitive in the era of AI.

### Where can I apply Azure Hybrid Benefit?

Primarily, Azure Hybrid Benefit extends to three main estates:

- **Windows Server**. You can allocate Azure Hybrid Benefit to your Windows Server licenses to run Windows Server VMs on Azure. You can save up to 80 percent over the standard pay-as-you-go rate for Windows Server with Azure Hybrid Benefit and Azure Reserved Virtual Machine Instances. With Azure Hybrid Benefit, you only need to pay for the base compute rate of the VM.
- **SQL Server**. Azure Hybrid Benefit allows you to allocate SQL Server on-premises licenses with Software Assurance ("Qualified License") on Azure VMs. With Azure Hybrid Benefit, customers aren't charged for using a SQL Server license on a VM. They must still pay for the cost of the underlying cloud compute resources (that is, the base rate), storage, and backups. Customers must also pay for input/output (I/O) associated with their use of the services (as applicable).
- **Linux**. Azure Hybrid Benefit for Linux lets you easily switch the software subscription model for your VM. You can remove licensing costs by bringing your Red Hat and SUSE Linux subscriptions directly to Azure or by utilizing a model where you pay for subscriptions as you use them.

Through Windows Server and SQL Server, you're eligible to extend the cost savings, migration allowance, and virtualization rights capabilities of Azure Hybrid Benefit to other Azure Solutions such as:

- **Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)**. Azure Hybrid Benefit for AKS enabled by Azure Arc can help you significantly reduce the cost of running Kubernetes on-premises or at the edge. It works by letting you apply your on-premises Windows Server Datacenter or Standard licenses with Software Assurance to pay for AKS. Each Windows Server core license entitles use of one virtual core of AKS.
- **Azure Dedicated Host**. The Azure Dedicated Host service provides physical servers that can host one or more VMs assigned to one Azure subscription. Dedicated hosts are the same physical servers used in our data centers, with these being provided instead as a directly accessible hardware resource. With the Azure Hybrid benefit, you can bring your own Windows and SQL licenses to Azure.
- **Azure Local**. If you have Windows Server Datacenter licenses with active Software Assurance, you're eligible to activate Azure Hybrid Benefit for your Azure Local. To activate this benefit, you'll need to exchange the 1-core license of Software Assurance-enabled Windows Server Datacenter for a 1-physical core of Azure Local license.
- **Azure SQL Database and SQL Managed Instance**. Azure Hybrid Benefit allows you to exchange your existing licenses for discounted rates on Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance. You can save up to 30 percent or more on SQL Database and SQL Managed Instance by using your Software Assurance–enabled SQL Server licenses on Azure. You can convert one core of SQL Server Enterprise edition with active Software Assurance to receive up to four virtual cores (vCores) or four vCPUs. For example, if you have four core licenses for SQL Server Enterprise edition, you can receive up to four 16 vCores for SQL Database General Purpose at the reduced base rate. This makes moving virtualized applications highly cost-effective.
- **Azure Arc**. Azure Arc extends Azure management and services to any infrastructure, enabling you to manage and govern resources across on-premises, multi-cloud, and edge environments. Azure Hybrid Benefit can be applied to Azure Arc-enabled services, such as Azure Arc-enabled SQL Server and Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes. This allows you to allocate your Windows Server and SQL Server licenses with Software Assurance to save on Azure Arc-enabled services. By using Azure Hybrid Benefit with Azure Arc, you can achieve cost savings while maintaining a consistent management and governance experience across your hybrid and multi-cloud environment.
- **Azure VMware Solution**. You can allocate Azure Hybrid Benefit to your on-premises licenses to Azure and apply them to your Azure VMware Solution workloads, reducing the overall cost of running VMware environments in the cloud. This benefit helps you maximize your existing investments and provides a cost-effective way to migrate and run your VMware workloads on Azure.
